[page 1]
1 Asynchronous Fractional Multi-Agent Deep Reinforcement Learning for Age-Minimal Mobile Edge Computing Lyudong Jin, Ming Tang,Member, IEEE, Jiayu Pan, Meng Zhang,Member, IEEE, Hao Wang,Member, IEEE Abstract—In the realm of emerging real-time networked applications such as cyber-physical systems (CPS), theAge of Information (AoI)has emerged as a pivotal metric for evaluating the timeliness. To meet the high computational demands, such as those in smart manufacturing within CPS, mobile edge computing (MEC) presents a promising solution for optimizing computing and reducing AoI. In this work, we study the timeliness of compute-intensive updates and explore jointly optimizing the task updating (when to generate a task) and offloading (where to process a task) policies to minimize AoI. Specifically, we consider edge load dynamics and formulate a task scheduling problem to minimize the expected time-average AoI. Solving this problem is challenging due to the fractional objective introduced by AoI and asynchronous decision-making of the semi-Markov game (SMG). To this end, we propose a fractional reinforcement learning (RL) framework. We begin by introducing a fractional single-agent RL framework and establish its linear convergence rate. Building on this, we develop a fractional multi-agent RL framework, extend Dinkelbach’s method, and demonstrate its equivalence to the inexact Newton’s method. Furthermore, we provide the conditions under which the framework achieves linear convergence to the Nash equilibrium (NE). To tackle the challenge of asynchronous decision-making in the SMG, we further design an asynchronous model-free fractional multi-agent RL algorithm, where each mobile device can determine the task updating and offloading decisions without knowing the real-time system dynamics and decisions of other devices. Experimental results show that when compared with the best existing baseline algorithm, our proposed algorithm reduces the average AoI by up to50.6%. Index Terms—Age of Information, mobile edge computing, Nash equilibrium, reinforcement learning, multi-agent reinforcement learning I. INTRODUCTION A. Background and Motivations Real-time embedded systems and mobile devices, including smartphones, IoT devices, and wireless sensors, have rapidly proliferated. This growth is driven by cyber-physical systems Lyudong Jin and Meng Zhang are with the Zhejiang University—University of Illinois at Urbana–Champaign Institute, Zhejiang University, Haining 314400, China (e-mail: 3180101183@zju.edu.cn; mengzhang@intl.zju.edu.cn). Ming Tang is with the Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Southern University of Science and Technology, Shenzhen 518000, China (e-mail: tangm3@sustech.edu.cn). Jiayu Pan is with the School of Software Technology, Zhejiang University, Ningbo 315048, China (e-mail: jiayupan26@zju.edu.cn). Hao Wang is with the Department of Data Science and AI, Faculty of Information Technology, Monash University, Melbourne, Victoria 3800, Australia (e-mail: hao.wang2@monash.edu). Part of this paper was presented in AAAI-24 [1]. (CPS) applications including collaborative autonomous driving for autonomous logistics (e.g., [2]), smart energy systems (e.g., [3]), and smart manufacturing (e.g., [4]). These applications generate a large amount of data and require intensive computational processing, which in turn creates a pressing need for low-latency, reliable, and private task execution. Mobile edge computing (MEC), also known as multi-access edge computing [5], addresses these needs by offloading computational tasks from end devices to nearby edge servers [6]. In this way, MEC reduces latency compared to cloud computing and provides larger computational capacity than that of mobile computing. Timely information updates are crucial for the aforementioned emerging CPS applications with high computational demands. These updates depend on real-time sensory data and computational results, such as human interaction and safety data, environmental data, and positioning and motion data. For instance, critical applications (e.g., [7], [8]), such as collaborative robots in smart manufacturing that operate alongside humans, require split-second decision-making to ensure safety and efficiency, relying on computationally intensive tasks like object detection, path planning, and task execution [9]. However, local computing often struggles to meet these stringent timeliness requirements, potentially compromising system performance and safety. This need for data freshness has driven the development of a new metric,Age of Information (AoI)[10], which quantifies the time elapsed since the most recently delivered data or computational results were produced, providing an accurate measure of information timeliness. While numerous prior studies on MEC have focused on minimizing delay (e.g., [11], [12]), they often overlooked AoI, which is crucial for real-time applications. Here we highlight the huge difference between delay and AoI. Specifically, task delay measures the duration between task generation and task output reception. With less frequent updates (i.e., when tasks are generated at a lower frequency), task delays are naturally smaller due to reduced queuing delays from empty queues. In contrast, AoI considers both task delay and the output freshness. To minimize AoI for compute-intensive tasks, the update frequency must be balanced to reduce individual task delays while ensuring the freshness of the most recent task output. This difference between delay and AoI reveals a counterintuitive phenomenon in age-minimal scheduling: mobile devices may need to wait before generating new tasks after receiving a task output. Specifically, a key bottleneck in CPS arXiv:2409.16832v6 [cs.LG] 1 Jan 2026

[page 2]
2 is the requirement for timely operation. Although low-latency communication is necessary, research has shown that it alone cannot guarantee timely system performance (see [13], [14]). Consequently, AoI has been proposed as a more suitable metric than latency for ensuring timely updates in CPS systems. In this paper, we aim to answer the key question as follows. Key Question.How should mobile devices optimize their updating and offloading policies in real-time MEC systems in order to minimize AoI? B. Challenges Optimizing AoI in MEC systems with time-varying channels requires a sophisticated scheduling policy for mobile devices, involving two key decisions: updating and offloading. Theupdatingdecision determines the interval between task completion and the initiation of the next task generation, while theoffloadingdecision decides whether to process the task locally or offload it to a specific edge server. Given the success of multi-agent reinforcement learning (MARL) in MEC systems [15], we aim to design a fractional MARL framework with theoretical analysis and propose an asynchronous fractional multi-agent deep reinforcement learning (MADRL) to optimize the task scheduling policy. Several significant challenges of our paper are presented as follows. How to deal with the fractional nature of AoI objective in RL?Many prior works on MEC have explored offloading (e.g., [12], [16]–[19]), and some have considered AoI (e.g. [18]–[20]). However, they did not consider the fractional AoI objective. The fractional RL framework focuses on optimizing a fraction-of-expectation objective, making it challenging to directly evaluate the impact of actions on the objective, unlike the reward-based approach in the standard RL framework. Consequently, real-time MEC systems require a fractional RL framework to address the fractional AoI objective. How can we adapt the fractional framework to a multi-agent scenario?Many MEC systems involve a decision-making process among multiple mobile devices. Effectively addressing this multi-agent paradigm in MARL is important for task scheduling in multi-agent systems. However, the fractional framework for a single agent cannot be directly adapted to the multi-agent scenario due to the increased complexity and inter-dependencies among agents. Thus, the MARL framework faces additional challenges in designing the fractional framework for the AoI objective. How to address the asynchronous decision problem in realtime MEC systems?Traditional MADRL algorithms, such as multi-agent deep deterministic gradient descent (MADDPG) [21] assume that agents make decisions synchronously. However, in multi-agent MEC systems, each agent (mobile device) has different task update and processing durations, leading to asynchronous decision-making among agents. Traditional MADRL algorithms including QMIX [22] and MAPPO [23] would be inefficient to address the challenge of asynchronous control in MEC scheduling problem. Thus, addressing these challenges necessitates novel approaches that can effectively handle the asynchronous nature of agent interactions in MEC environments. C. Solution Approaches and Contributions In this paper, we propose a comprehensive framework that addresses the challenges of AoI optimization in MEC systems through both single-agent and multi-agent fractional reinforcement learning approaches for joint task updating and offloading policy optimization. We model the multi-agent interaction as a semi-Markov game (SMG), where agents’ state transitions and rewards depend on asynchronous actions. Our solution framework consists of three key components. First, we propose a fractional RL framework based on Dinkelbach’s fractional programming [24] for single-agent scenario. We then design a fractional MARL framework that incorporates Nash Q-learning [25] with fractional programming and inexact Newton method for the multi-agent scenario. Finally, to address the asynchronous decision-making nature of SMG, we develop an asynchronous fractional MARL framework with a novel asynchronous trajectory collection mechanism. Our main contributions are summarized as follows: •Joint Task Updating and Offloading Problem:We formulate a joint task updating and offloading problem, accounting for the fractional nature of AoI, the multiagent system and the asynchronous decision-making processes of mobile devices.To the best of our knowledge, this is the first work designing multi-agent asynchronous policies for the joint updating and offloading optimization in age-minimal MEC. •Fractional RL Framework: We consider the scenario of single-agent task scheduling and propose a fractional RL framework that integrates RL with Dinkelbach’s method. This methodology can adeptly handle fractional objectives within the RL paradigm and demonstrates a linear convergence rate. •Fractional MARL Framework:To tackle the challenge of fractional objectives in a multi-agent scenario, we begin by considering a Markov game, where state transitions and rewards depend on the agents’ joint actions. We propose a novel fractional MARL framework that ensures the existence of a Nash equilibrium (NE) within this setting. Additionally, we extend Dinkelbach’s method, demonstrating its equivalence to the inexact Newton’s method, and provide the conditions under which it achieves linear convergence to the NE. •Asynchronous Fractional MADRL Algorithm:We then propose a novel asynchronous fractional MADRL framework, built upon the centralized training with decentralized execution (CTDE) paradigm, to minimize AoI and approximate the NE in the SMG. Our framework integrates several key components as follows. First, we incorporate the dueling double deep Q-network (D3QN) and proximal policy optimization (PPO) into our fractional framework to handle hybrid action spaces. To address the asynchronous nature of SMGs, we implement a novel asynchronous trajectory collection mechanism. We also incorporate a recurrent neural network (RNN)

[page 3]
3 to synthesize information and evaluate other agents’ strategies. These enhancements enable our framework to approximate the NE in the asynchronous environment of SMG and effectively minimize AoI for MEC systems. •Performance Evaluation:Our experimental evaluation demonstrates that the asynchronous fractional MADRL algorithm outperforms benchmarks. When compared with the best existing baseline, our proposed algorithm improves the average AoI by up to 50.6%. The experimental results validate that both the fractional framework and the asynchronous mechanism contribute to enhancing the overall system performance. II. LITERATUREREVIEW Mobile Edge Computing: Existing MEC research has explored various areas, including resource allocation [26], service placement [27], proactive caching [28], and task offloading [29]. Many studies have proposed RL-based approaches to optimize task delays in a centralized manner (e.g., [30], [31]) or in a decentralized manner (e.g., [12], [32]).Despite the success in reducing the task delay, these approaches are NOT easily applicable to age-minimal MEC due to the challenges of fractional objective and asynchronous decision-making. Multi-Agent RL in MEC:Multi-Agent RL has been widely adopted in multi-agent approaches with decentralized manners in MEC systems. Liet al.proposed a decentralized edge server grouping algorithm and achieved NE by proving it to be exact potential game [33]. Chenet al.addressed the task offloading in the information freshness-aware airground integrated multi-access edge computing by letting each non-cooperative mobile user behave independently with local conjectures utilizing double deep Q-network. Fenget al. utilized a gating threshold to intelligently choose between local and global observations and limit the information transmission for approximating Nash equilibrium in an anti-jamming Markov game [34]. However, these MARL approaches have not considered the fractional objective when reaching NE. Age of Information:Since its introduction by Kaulet al.[10], AoI has attracted increasing attention in the study of CPS (e.g., [35], [36]) in recent years. However, the majority of works have focused on the optimization of AoI in queueing systems and wireless networks, assuming the availability of complete and known statistical information (see [37], [38]). Additionally, recent works have characterized the optimal sampling policies in single-source MEC systems [39] and further extended the analysis to joint sampling and scheduling optimization in multi-source systems [40]. However, the above studies analyzed either single-device or single-server scenarios and are difficult to adapt to the complex, time-varying dynamics of multi-user MEC systems where channel states and edge loads fluctuate unpredictably. A few studies have investigated RL algorithms design to minimize AoI in various application scenarios, including wireless networks [41], Internet-of-Things [42], autonomous driving [20], vehicular networks [43], and UA V-aided networks [44]. They mainly focused on optimizing resource allocation and trajectory design. Some works considered AoI as the performance metric for task offloading in MEC and proposed RL-based approaches. For instance, Chenet al.in [19] considered AoI to capture the freshness of computation outcomes and proposed a multi-agent RL algorithm.However, these works focused solely on designing task offloading policies without jointly optimizing updating policies. Note that none of these approaches have considered fractional RL and are difficult to directly address the problem in this paper. RL with Fractional Objectives:There is limited research on RL with fractional objectives. Renet al.introduced fractional MDP [45]. Tanakaet al.[46] further studied partially observed MDPs with fractional costs. However, these studies have not extended to RL framework. Suttleet al.[47] proposed a two-timescale RL algorithm for fractional cost optimization. However, this method requires fixed reference states in Qlearning updates, which cannot be directly adapted to an asynchronous multi-agent environment. Asynchronous Decision-Making MARL:Research on asynchronous decision-making in MARL is also limited. Xiao et al.[48] established an independent actor with individual centralized critic framework collecting historical information of each agent. But their approach disregards historical information from other agents and demands frequent policy updates via on-policy training. Chen et al. [49] proposed VarLenMARL in which each agent have a variable time step to gather the padding data of the most up-to-date step of other agents. However, this approach becomes inefficient with a large number of agents and may neglect information from agents that make decisions frequently. Wang and Sun [50] proposed a credit assignment framework with graphbased event critic for bus route control. However, this method only considers the effect of nearest upstream and downstream events of a single line and is not suitable for more complicated patterns including the effects from events of multiple lines. MAC-IAICC [48] formulates asynchronous actions as macroactions and rigorously models the task within the MacDecPOMDP framework. Lianget al.addressed these issues with ASM-PPO [51] and ASM-HPPO [52], which collected agent trajectories independently and trained using available agents at each time slot. However, these methods could still suffer from the disruption of the synchronization of agents’ tasks, as we will study later. III. SYSTEMMODEL In this section, we present the system model for MEC. We first introduce the device and edge server model. We then define the AoI in our MEC setting and formulate the task scheduling problem within a semi-Markov game framework. In this MEC system model, we consider mobile devices M={1,2,· · ·, M}and edge serversN={1,2,· · ·, N} respectively, as shown in Fig. 1. We denote the set of tasks as K={1,· · ·, K}. A. Device Model As shown in Fig. 1, each mobile devicemis associated with a mobile user of CPS applications (e.g., [2]–[9]), who seeks to offload their computationally intensive tasks to edge

[page 4]
4 Fig. 1. An illustration of an MEC system with a mobile devicem∈ Mand an edge servern∈ Nwhere the tasks offloaded by different mobile devices are represented using different colors. servers to receive timely updates. Each mobile device includes a task generator, a scheduler, a monitor, and a local processor. The generator produces computational tasks. The scheduler chooses to process them locally or offload to an edge server. After the edge server or local processor processes the task, the result is sent to the monitor and the generator then decides when to initiate a new task. Generator: We adopt agenerate-at-willmodel, as considered in [53]–[57], where each mobile device’s task generator decides when to generate a new task. For example, tasks are generated alongside sensory data, with sensors specifically designed to sample physical phenomena on demand. 1 Specifically, when taskk−1of mobile devicem∈ Mis completed att ′ m,k−1, the task generator observes the latencyY m,k−1 of taskk−1and queue information of edge serversq(t ′ m,k−1). The generator then decides onZ m,k ≥0, i.e., the waiting time before generating thenexttaskk. We assume that edge servers share their load levels in response to mobile device queries. Since a generator produces a new task after the previous task is finished, the queue length is less than or equal toM, which incurs minimal signaling overhead. Leta U m,k denote the updating action for taskk, i.e.,a U m,k =Z m,k and AU =R M + be the updating action space, whereR + denotes the space of non-zero real number. The generation time of task kis calculated ast m,k =t ′ m,k−1 +Z m,k. Notably, an optimal waiting strategy for updating can outperform a zero-wait policy, indicating that the waiting timeZ m,k is not necessarily zero and should be optimized for efficiency [53]. Specifically, our framework optimizesZ m,k to find the optimal balance between the waiting timeZ m,k and potential queuing delays at the server, which is crucial in multi-agent environments where server availability is stochastic and transient. Scheduler: When the generator produces taskkat time tm,k, the scheduler makes the offloading decisionx m,k ∈ 1For the alternative model to the generate-at-will paradigm, where tasks arrive randomly, extending the proposed fractional RL framework is conceptually straightforward, as this can be achieved by simply removing the waiting action. {0} ∪ Nwith the queue informationq(t m,k)of edge servers 2. Leta O m,k denote the action of taskkfrom mobile devicem. That is,a O m,k =x m,k, k∈ K, m∈ M. LetA O ∈({0} ∪ N) M andπ O m denote the offloading action space and the task offloading policy of mobile devicem∈ M, respectively. For local processing on mobile devicem∈ M,τ local m,k (in seconds) represents the processing time of taskk. The value of τ local m,k depends on the task size and the real-time computational capacity of mobile device (e.g., whether the device is busy in processing tasks of other applications). For offloading taskkto edge servern∈ N,τ tran n,m,k (in seconds) denotes the transmission latency of mobile devicem. The value of τ tran n,m,k depends on the time-varying wireless channels. We assume thatτ local m,k is a random variable that follows exponential distributions, as in [32], [58], [59], to capture the inherent variability caused by stochastic computational complexity and resource contention in practical MEC environments. B. Edge Server Model When a mobile devicem∈ Moffloads a task to edge servern∈ N, we consider the time-varying channels between mobile devices and edge nodes located at different positions. Considering Rayleigh fading, the instantaneous channel power gain between mobile usermand the edge servernat global timetis given byh t,m,n =g t,m,nd−α t,m,n, whered t,m,n is the distance from mobile usermto the edge noden, andα is the path loss exponent, andg t,m,n is the Rayleigh fading coefficient. Simultaneous transmissions from multiple devices to the same edge node can cause interference. According to the Shannon principle, the channel capacity for mobile devicem withNorthogonal sub-channels of edge nodes, can be derived as: Rt,m,n =Wlog 2 1 + Pmht,m,n η0 +P i∈N \{m}:ci=cm βt,iPiht,i,n ! , (1) whereWis the channel bandwidth,P m denotes the transmit power of mobile userm, andη 0 represents the background noise power. The variableβ t,i ∈ {0,1}indicates the transmission status of useriat timet(β t,i = 1for active transmission and0otherwise). Note that the interference term implies that only mobile devices transmitting concurrently on the same sub-channelc m contribute to the interference. Then, the transmitting time can be calculated asτ tran n,m,k =l kdk/Rt,m,n. When the mobile devicemsuccessfully offloads the task to edge servern, the task is stored in a queue waiting for processing, as shown in Fig. 1. We assume the queue operates on a first-come-first-served (FCFS) basis [37]. FCFS prevents strategic preemption to ensure game stability, while our generate-at-will setting inherently eliminates self-blocking. We denoteq(t) ={q n(t)}n∈N as the queue lengths of all edge servers. Edge servers update their queue length information 2Under the system model in Section III, observing the queue lengths of edge servers is sufficient for mobile devices to learn their offloading policies. Under a more complicated system (e.g., with device mobility), additional state information may be necessary. However, our proposed RL-based framework remain applicable with an extended state vector.

[page 5]
5 q(t)in two cases: when a task is completed or when a waiting period ends. Recall that a generator generates a new task only after the previous task has been processed, the queue length is less than or equal toM. Thus, the information to be sent can be encoded inO(log 2 M)bits with minimal signaling overheads. We denotew edge n,m,k (in seconds) as the duration that taskkof mobile devicem∈ Mwaits at the queue of edge servern. Letτ edge n,m,k (in seconds) denote the latency of edge servernfor processing taskkof mobile devicem. We assume thatτ edge n,m,k is a random variable following an exponential distribution i.e., τ edge n,m,k ∼Exp( Cedge n lkdk ). Here,C edge n is the processing capacity (in GHz) of edgen. Parametersl k andd k denote the task size and task density ofkrespectively. In addition, the value of wedge n,m,k depends on the processing times of the tasks ahead in the queue, which are possibly offloaded by other mobile devices. Additionally, these offloading information cannot be directly observed by mobile devicem. Therefore, the waiting time cannot be modeled analytically, motivating our use of a model-free MARL frameworks to capture such dynamics. C. Age of Information For mobile devicem, the AoI at global clockT[37] is defined by ∆m(t) =t−T m(t),∀m∈ M, t≥0,(2) whereT m(t)≜maximize k(tm,k|t′ m,k ≤t)stands for the time stamp of the most recently completed task. The overall duration to complete taskkis denoted by Ym,k ≜t ′ m,k −t m,k. Therefore, Ym,k = ( τ local m,k , x m,k = 0, τ tran n,m,k +w edge n,m,k +τ edge n,m,k, x m,k =n∈ N. (3) We consider a deadline ¯Y(in seconds). Tasks not completed within ¯Yseconds will be dropped [12], [60]. Meanwhile, the AoI keeps increasing until the next task is completed. We define the trapezoid area associated with time interval [tm,k, tm,k+1]: A(Ym,k, Zm,k+1, Ym,k+1) ≜1 2(Ym,k +Z m,k+1 +Y m,k+1)2 − 1 2(Ym,k+1)2,(4) whereZ m,k+1 denotes the updating interval before generating next taskk+ 1. The time-average AoI is defined as limT→∞ 1 T R T 0 ∆m(t)dt. By applying the Renewal Reward Theorem, this time-average equals the ratio of the expected area per cycle (given by (4)) to the expected cycle duration. Thus, the objective for mobile devicemis characterized as: ∆(ave) m ≜lim inf K→∞ PK k=0 E[A(Ym,k, Zm,k+1, Ym,k+1)] PK k=0 E[Ym,k +Z m,k+1] ,(5) whereE[·]is the expectation with respect to decisions made according to certain policies, which will be elaborated upon in the subsequent sections. D. Game Formulation In MEC systems, mobile devices make updating and offloading decisions asynchronously due to variable transition times. These transition times fluctuate based on scheduling strategies and edge workloads. Given that the current MARL framework is designed for synchronous decision-making processes, it is not suitable for application in this context. To address this challenge, we model the real-time MEC scheduling problem as an SMG. An SMG extends Markov decision processes to multi-agent systems with variable state transition times. Thus, this framework can address asynchronous decision-making in MEC systems. The game is defined as(M,S,A, P S , PF , µ0), given by •M: the set of mobile devices; •S: the state space denoted byN M ×N N M ×R M . Specifically, a states∈ Sis expressed ass≜ ((Im)m∈M,(q(t m))m∈M,(Y m)m∈M), where(I m)m∈M denotes the decision indicators, specifying whether each mobile devicem∈ Mneeds to take offloading action aO m, updating actiona U m or make no decisions; •A: the action space defined asA U × AO. Specifically, an actiona∈ Aconsists of its task updating actiona U and task offloading actiona O. We define the set of admissible triplets asH={(s,a)|s∈ S,a∈ A}. •P S :H →P(S)is the transition function of the game, whereP(S)is the collection of probability distributions over spaceS. •P F :H × S →P(R +): the stochastic kernel determining the transition time distribution; •µ 0: the distribution of the initial states 0. The key difference between a SMG and a conventional Markov game lies in the timing of state transitions. In a traditional Markov game, state transitions occur at fixed, discrete intervals, with agents acting synchronously at each step. In contrast, a SMG features asynchronous transitions, where the time between states is a non-negative random variable drawn from a distribution dependent on the current state and actions. Thus, the decision-making of each agent is asynchronous, with each agent acting independently based on its own timeline. We define policy is denoted byπ={π m}m∈M, where each policyπ m = (π U m,π O m)includes both the updating and offloading policies of single mobile devicem. We define the expected long-term discounted AoI of mobile devicemas Eπ[∆m]≜ E s0∼µ0    ∞P k=0 δkEπ[A(Ym,k, Zm,k+1, Ym,k+1)] ∞P k=0 δkEπ[Ym,k +Z m,k+1]    , (6) whereδ∈(0,1)is a discount factor. We have the objective with the initial states 0 under initial distributionµ 0. For simplicity, we drop the notation E s0∼µ0 [·], which is by default unless stated otherwise in the following. While standard RL is typically designed to maximize or minimize expected discounted cumulative rewards, the fractional RL framework focuses on optimizing a fraction-ofexpectation objective function, as in (6). This means that it

[page 6]
6 is challenging to directly evaluate the impact of a specific action on the objective value, as is done with rewards in the conventional RL setting. This challenge primarily motivates our fractional RL framework, which also necessitates new analyses for convergence and algorithm design. Note that the discounted AoI form facilitates the application of AoI optimization in RL and MARL frameworks that utilize discounted cost functions. By assigning less weight to costs incurred in the distant future, the objective in (6) encourages the agent to prioritize immediate information freshness in nonstationary environments, where long-term planning faces high uncertainty. Additionally, asδapproaches 1, the discounted AoI (6) approximates the undiscounted AoI function (5). The expectationE π[·]is taken with respect to the policyπ and the time-varying system parameters, e.g., channels states, processing times and the edge loads. We define the Nash equilibriumπ ⋆ ={π ⋆ m}m∈M for our task scheduling problem as follows. Definition 1(Nash Equilibrium).In stochastic gameG, a Nash equilibrium is a tuple of policies(π ⋆ 1, . . . ,π ⋆ m)of cost functions such that for allm∈ Mwe have, Eπ⋆m,π⋆ −m[∆m]≤E πm,π⋆ −m[∆m].(7) For each mobile devicem∈ M, given the fixed stationary policiesπ ⋆ −m, the best response in our real-time MEC scheduling problem is defined as π⋆ m = arg minimize πm Eπm,π⋆ −m[∆m].(8) Solving (8) is challenging due to the following reasons. First, the fractional objective introduces a major challenge in obtaining the optimal policy for conventional RL algorithms due to its non-linear nature. Second, the multi-agent environment introduces complex dynamics from interactions between edge servers and mobile devices. Third, the continuous time nature, stochastic state transitions, and asynchronous decisionmaking in the SMG pose significant challenges in directly applying conventional game-theoretic methodologies. In the following sections, we first analyze a simplified version of the single-agent fractional RL framework. This framework establishes a robust theoretical foundation and serves as a benchmark for subsequent experiments. We then extend our theoretical analysis of our fractional framework to multi-agent scenarios, which is closer to SMG and practical dynamics. Finally, we propose the fractional MADRL algorithm in asynchronous setting for SMG, which matches the practical dynamics of real-time MEC systems. IV. FRACTIONALSINGLE-AGENTRL FRAMEWORK For foundational theoretical analysis, we first consider a fractional single-agent RL framework. We design a fractional MDP and propose a fractional Q-learning algorithm. We provide analysis of the linear convergence for this algorithm. We formulate the problem as follows. A. Single-Agent Problem Formulation Recall that agentmselects its updating action and scheduling action, satisfying(a O m,k, aU m,k)∈ A m ≜R + ×({0} ∪ N). The goal of single-agent RL is to learn a stationary policyπ m that maps the state spaceSto agentm’s action spaceA m via solving the following single-agent problem: π∗ m = arg minimize πm Eπm[∆m],(9) where we focus on the policy of agentmalone, compared with (8). We study the general fractional MDP framework and drop the indexmin the rest of this section. We then introduce a fractional RL framework to address Problem (9). Specifically, we first reformulate Problem (9). We then introduce a fractional RL framework and propose a fractional Q-learning algorithm with provable convergence guarantees. B. Dinkelbach’s Reformulation To solve Problem (9), we consider the Dinkelbach’s reformulation. Specifically, we define a reformulated AoI in a discounted fashion: Eπ[∆′, γ]≜ ∞X k=0 δkEπ[A(Yk, Zk+1, Yk+1) −γ(Y k +Z k+1)],∀γ≥0.(10) Letγ ∗ be the optimal value of Problem (9). By leveraging Dinkelbach’s method [24], we reformulate the problem as follows. Lemma 1(Asymptotic Equivalence [24]).Problem(9)is equivalent to the following reformulated problem: π∗ = arg minimize π Eπ[∆′, γ∗],(11) whereπ ∗ is the optimal solution to Problem(9). SinceE π[∆′, γ∗]≥0for anyπandE π∗[∆′, γ∗] = 0,π ∗ is also optimal for the Dinkelbach reformulation. This implies that the reformulation equivalence is also established for our stationary policy space. C. Fractional MDP We then extend the standard MDP to a fractional form, laying the groundwork for a more complex and practical setting in a Markov game. A fractional MDP is defined as(S,A, P, c N , cD, P r, δ, µ0), whereSandAare the finite sets of states and actions, respectively;P ris the state transition distribution;c N andc D are the fractional costs,δis a discount factor, andµ 0 ={µ 0(s)}s∈S denotes the initial global state distribution. We useZto denote the joint state-action space, i.e.,Z≜S × A. We define the instant fractional costs at taskkas cN(sk,a k) =A(Y k, Zk+1, Yk+1),(12) cD(sk,a k) =Y k +Z k+1.(13)

[page 7]
7 Algorithm 1Fractional Q-Learning (FQL) 1:forepisodei= 0,1,· · ·, Edo 2:Initializes 0; 3:fortaskk= 0,1,· · ·, Kdo 4:Observe the next states m(t+ 1); 5:Observe a set of costs{c N,k , cD,k}; 6:Submit(s k,a k, cN,k, cD,k,s k+1); 7:end for 8:γ i+1 = Nγi (s,ai) Dγi (s,ai) ,wherea i = arg mina Qγi(s,a). 9:end for From Lemma 1, Problem (9) has the equivalent Dinkelbach’s reformulation: π∗ = argminimize π lim K→∞ Eπ " KX k=0 δk(cN −γ ∗cD) # ,(14) where we can see from Lemma 1 thatγ ∗ satisfies γ∗ =minimize π lim K→∞ Eπ hPK k=0 δkcN i Eπ hPK k=0 δkcD i .(15) Note that Problem (14) is a classical MDP problem, including an immediate costc N(s,a)−γ ∗cD(s,a). Thus, we can apply a traditional RL algorithm to solve such a reformulated problem, such as Q-Learning or its variants (e.g., SQL in [61]). However, the optimal quotient coefficientγ ∗ and the transition distributionPare not knowna priori. Therefore, we design an algorithm that combines fractional programming and reinforcement learning to solve Problem (14) for a givenγand seek the value ofγ ∗. To achieve this, we start by introducing the following definitions. Given a quotient coefficientγ, the optimal Q-function is Q∗ γ(s,a)≜minimize π Qπ γ (s,a),∀(s,a)∈ Z,(16) whereQ π γ (s,a)is the action-state function that satisfies the following Bellman’s equation: for all(s,a)∈ Z, Qπ γ (s,a)≜c N(s,a)−γc D(s,a) +δE P r  Qπ γ (s′,a)  , (17) whereE P r is a concise notation forE s′∼P r(·|s,a). In addition, we can further decompose the optimal Q-function in (16) into the following two parts:Q ∗ γ(s,a) =N γ(s,a)−γD γ(s,a) and, for all(s,a)∈ Z, Nγ(s,a) =c N(s,a) +δE P r [Nγ(s′,a)],(18) Dγ(s,a) =c D(s,a) +δE P r [Dγ(s′,a)].(19) D. Fractional Q-Learning Algorithm In this subsection, we present a Fractional Q-Learning (FQL) algorithm (see Algorithm 1). The algorithm consists of an inner loop withEepisodes and an outer loop. The key idea is to approximate the Q-functionQ ∗ γ usingQ i in the inner loop, while iterating over the sequence{γ i}in the outer loop. A notable innovation in Algorithm 1 is the design of the stopping condition, which ensures that the uniform approximation errors ofQ i shrink progressively. This allows us to adapt the convergence proof from [24] to our inner loop, while proving the linear convergence rate of{γ i}in the outer loop. Importantly, this design does not increase the time complexity of the inner loop. We describe the details of the inner loop and the outer loop procedures of Algorithm 1 in the following: •Inner loop: For each episodei, given a quotient coefficientγ i, we perform an (arbitrary) Q-Learning algorithm (as the Speedy Q-Learning in [61]) to approximate functionQ ∗ γ(s,a)byQ i(s,a). Lets 0 denote the initial state of any episode, anda i ≜arg min a Qi(s0,a)for all i∈[E]≜{1, ..., E}. We consider astopping condition ϵi <−αQ i(s0,a i),∀i∈[E],(20) whereα >0is the error scaling factor. This stopping condition ensures the algorithm being terminated in each episodeiwith a boundeduniform approximation error: ∥Q∗ γ −Qi∥ ≤ϵ i,∀i∈[E].Operator∥·∥is the supremum norm, which satisfies∥g∥≜max (s,a)∈Z g(s,a). Specifically, we obtainQ i(s0,a i),N i(s0,a i), andD i(s0,a i), which satisfy, Qi(s0,a i) =N i(s0,a i)−γ iDi(s0,a i).(21) •Outer loop:We update the quotient coefficient: γi+1 = E s0∼µ0  Ni(s0,a i) Di(s0,a i)  ,∀i∈[E],(22) which will be shown to converge to the optimal valueγ ∗. E. Convergence Analysis We present the time complexity analysis of inner loop and the convergence results of our proposed FQL algorithm (Algorithm 1) as follows. 1) Time Complexity of the inner loop:Although as {Qi(s0,a i)}is convergent to0and henceϵ i <−αQ i is getting more restrictive asiincreases, the steps neededT i in Algorithm 1 keep to be finite without increasing over episode i. See [62, Appendix A] in detail. 2) Convergence of FQL algorithm:We then analyze the convergence of FQL algorithm: Theorem 1(Linear Convergence of Fractional Q-Learning). If the uniform approximation error∥Q ∗ γi −Qi∥ ≤ϵ i holds with ϵi <−αQ i(s0,a i)for someα∈(0,1)and for alli∈[E], then the sequence{γ i}generated by Algorithm 1 satisfies γi+1 −γ ∗ γi −γ ∗ ∈(0,1),∀i∈[E]andlim i→∞ γi+1 −γ ∗ γi −γ ∗ =α. (23) That is,{γ i}converges toγ ∗ linearly.

[page 8]
8 While the convergence proof in [24] requires obtaining the exactsolution in each episode, Theorem 1 generalizes this result to the case where we only obtain anapproximated (inexact)solution in each episode. In addition to the proof techniques in [24] and [61], our proof techniques include induction and exploiting the convexity ofQ i(s,a). We present a proof sketch of Theorem 1 in [62, Appendix B]. The significance of Theorem 1 is two-fold. First, Theorem 1 shows that Algorithm 1 achieves a linear convergence rate, even though it only attains an approximation ofQ ∗ γ(s,a). Second, (20) is a well-behaved stopping condition. V. FRACTIONALMULTI-AGENTRL FRAMEWORK In this section, we propose a fractional MARL framework with inexact Newton method, extending our fractional framework from the single-agent scenario to the multi-agent one. We first introduce a Markov game for our task scheduling problem. We then develop a fractional framework including fractional sub-games to address the fractional objective challenge. Finally, we propose the fractional Nash Q-learning algorithm and analyze the convergence of this algorithm to Nash equilibrium. A. Markov Game Formulation We study our problem in a multi-agent scenario and introduce the task scheduling Markov game. The task scheduling Markov game is defined as:G= (M,S,A,{c N,m}M m=1,{c D,m}M m=1,P, δ, µ 0)whereMis the number of agents,SandArepresent the state space and action space, respectively,P(s ′|s,a)denotes the state transition probability,δ∈(0,1)is discounted factor, andµ 0 denotes the initial state distribution. We define the instant fractional costs at taskkof mobile devicemas cN,m(sk,a k) =A(Y m,k, Zm,k+1, Ym,k+1),(24) cD,m(sk,a k) =Y m,k +Z m,k+1.(25) Following the definition of discounted AoI in (6), we define the fractional long-term discounted cost for mobile devicem as Vm(s,π) = Eπ  ∞P k=0 δkcN,m(sk,a k) s0 =s  Eπ  ∞P k=0 δkcD,m(sk,a k) s0 =s  ,(26) whereπ= (π m,π −m)represents the policies of mobile devicemand other agents that determine actions, andE π is the expectation regarding transition dynamics given stationary control policyπ. Note that (26) approximates the undiscounted function whenδapproaches 1 [63]. Specifically, an NE is a tuple of policiesπ ⋆ = (π⋆ m,π ⋆ −m) of gameG. For each mobilem∈ M, given the fixed stationary policiesπ ⋆ −m, the fractional objective can be expressed as: π⋆ m = arg minimize πm Vm(s,π m,π ⋆ −m),∀s∈ S.(27) Lemma 2 guarantees the existence of an NE in gameG. Lemma 2.For the multi-player stochastic game with expected long-term discounted costs, there always exists a Nash equilibrium in stationary polices, where the probability of taking an action remains constant throughout the game [64]. B. Fractional Sub-Game To deal with the fractional objective (27) for NE, we reformulated our game into iterative fractional sub-games based on Dinkelbach method [24] in this subsection. First, we define sub-gameG γ with fractional coefficientsγ for fractional sub-games as follows. Definition 2(Fractional Sub-Game).The fractional subgame is defined asG γ = (M,S,A,{c N,m}M m=1,{c D,m}M m=1, P, δ,γ), where the new components areγ={γ m}m∈M, representing the set of Dinkelbach variables. Eachγ m is a Dinkelbach variable associated with mobile devicem. The fractional value functions of sub-game are denoted as Vγ(s) := [Vγm(s)]m∈M. The value function for each mobile devicem∈ Mis given by Vγm(s,π) = (1−δ)· Eπ ( ∞X k=0 δk[cNm(sk,a k)−γ mcDm(sk,a k)] s0 =s ) , (28) wheres k,a k are the global state and action at taskk. In sub-gameG γ, each mobile devicemaims to find its best responseπ ⋆ m. With policies of other agentsπ ⋆ −m fixed, the best response of mobile devicemminimizes its cost value Vγm for any given global system states∈ S. The objective is formulated as: π⋆ m = arg minimize πm Vγm(s,π m,π ⋆ −m),∀s∈ S.(29) Lemma 2 ensures the existence of an NE in sub-gameG γ. For brevity, we denote the optimal state-value function as V ⋆ γm(s) =V γm(s,π ⋆ m,π ⋆ −m),∀s∈ S, where(π ⋆ m,π ⋆ −m)is the NE of sub-gameG γ. Thus, we propose a fractional Nash Q-Learning algorithm based on the iterative fractional sub-games and show its convergence in the rest of this section. C. Fractional Nash Q-Learning Algorithm We introduce the Fractional Nash Q-Learning (FNQL) algorithm in Algorithm 2. This algorithm includes two loops: 1)an inner loop that obtains NE of sub-gameG γ, and2)an outer loop that iteratesγuntil convergence. The key idea is to iterate sub-gameG γ and attain the NE of Markov gameG whenγconverges.

[page 9]
9 1) Inner Loop:Following [65], we first define the Nash operator N as follows: Definition 3(Nash Operator).Consider a collection ofM functions,f(a) = [f m(am,a −m)]m∈M, which admit a Nash equilibriumπ ⋆. We introduce the Nash operator N a∈A , which maps the collections of functions into their corresponding Nash equilibrium values, i.e.,f(a ⋆) = N a∈A f(a), satisfying fm(a∗ m,a ∗ −m)≤f m(am,a ∗ −m),∀a m,∀m∈ M.(30) For sub-gameG γ, the optimization of best response (29) utilize an instant cost, given byc Nm(s,a)− γmcDm(s,a),∀m∈ M. To solve this optimization, we apply the traditional MARL algorithm Nash Q-learning [25]. Nash-Q Functions.We define the Nash Q-functions withγ as: Qγ(s,a)≜c N(s,a)−γ⊙c D(s,a) +δE P  N a∈A Qγ(s,a)  , (31) where⊙stands for the element-wise product of two vectors. We denotec N(s,a) = [c Nm(s,a)] m∈M,c D(s,a) = [cDm(s,a)] m∈M. We useE P as a shorthand notation for Es′∼P(·|s,a). In the inner loop, we update the Q-function of mobile devicem∈ Mat iterationkby Qk+1 γ (s,a)=(1−λ)Q k γ(s,a) +λ{c N(s,a)−γ⊙c D(s,a) +δEP  N a∈A Qk γ(s′,a)  ,(32) whereλis the learning rate. We observe that the Nash Qfunction in (31) is the fixed point of the iteration in (32). Nash Equilibrium Policies.Letπ ⋆ γ(s) = [π ⋆ m(s)]m∈M be the NE policies of the sub-gameG γ. We have that π⋆ γ,m(s) = arg min am Qγ,m(s,a m),∀m∈ M.(33) Value functions.We define N ⋆ γ(s) = h N ⋆ γm(s) i m∈M and D ⋆ γ(s) = h D ⋆ γm(s) i m∈M as the numerate numerator value functions and denominator value functions as follows N ⋆ γ(s)≜c N(s,π ∗ γ(s)) +δE s′∼P(·|s,π ∗γ (s)) h N ⋆ γ(s′) i , (34) D ⋆ γ(s)≜c D(s,π ∗ γ(s))) +δE s′∼P(·|s,π ∗γ (s)) h D ⋆ γ(s′)] i . (35) It follows from (31) that N a∈A Qγ(s,a) = N ⋆ γ(s)− ⟨γ, D ⋆ γ(s)⟩. We approximate the Nash operator N a∈A as detailed in [62, Appendix C]. For each sub-gameG γ, we perform the fractional Nash QLearning algorithm to obtain the Nash Q-functionsQ γ(s). Each episode terminates when the Nash equilibrium of subgameG γ is attained. Algorithm 2Fractional Nash Q-Learning (FNQL) 1:Initialize a tolerance coefficientϵ; 2:repeat 3:fork= 0,1,· · ·, Kdo 4:Initializes 0; 5:Choose actionabased on currentQ k; 6:Observec N ,c D,a, ands ′; 7:UpdateQ k γ by (32); 8:end for 9:Updateγ m by (40) for allm∈ M; 10:until∥E s0∼µ0 h N ⋆ γ(s0)− ⟨γ, D ⋆ γ(s0)⟩ i ∥ ≤ϵ. 2) Outer loop:Givenγ∈Γ, we utilize neural networks (detailed in Section VI) to approximate the Nash Equilibrium strategyπ ⋆ γ,m for each playerm∈ Min sub-gameG γ. Let θm(γ)∈Θ m denote the parameters of the neural network trained for playermgivenγ. We define the mappingθ: Γ→Θ, whereΘ =× m∈MΘm. The outputs of these neural networks, parameterized byθ(γ), collectively approximate the NE strategy profileπ ⋆ γ for the sub-gameG γ. Based on the strategies parameterized byθ, we define the following expected value functions for agentm: Nm(θ, γm) =E s0∼µ0 h N ⋆ γm(s0) i ,(36) Dm(θ, γm) =E s0∼µ0 h D ⋆ γm(s0) i ,(37) Fm(θ, γm) =E s0∼µ0 h N ⋆ γm(s0)−γ mD ⋆ γm(s0) i .(38) We denote the objective functionsF(θ,γ) = [Fm(θ, γm)]m∈M. For simplicity, letθ ∗ =θ(γ ∗), which represents the parameters for the NE strategy of original Markov gameG. We establish the existence of an equivalent condition of reaching NE between the Markov gameGand the fractional sub-gameG γ with the following lemma: Lemma 3.There existsγ ∗ ≻0, such that the NE strategyπ ∗ of gameGis also an NE strategy of sub-gameG γ ∗. Forγ ∗, the correspondingF(θ ∗,γ ∗)satisfies: F(θ ∗,γ ∗) =0.(39) Lemma 3 is proven using the property of (31) and the Brouwer fixed point theorem. The detailed proof can be found in [62, Appendix D]. The outer loop implements the iterations of fractional subgame based on generalizing the Dinkelbach method [24]. At each iterationi, after achieving the NE of sub-gameG γi, we update coefficientsγin line 9 of Algorithm 2 as γm,i+1 = Nm(θ, γm,i) Dm(θ, γm,i) ,∀m∈ M.(40) We repeat this process untilγconverges, which happens when Es0∼µ0 h N ⋆ γ(s0)−γ D ⋆ γ(s0) i is sufficiently close to0. We proceed to show that the updates in (40) constitutes an inexact Newton’s method and quantify the conditions that lead to a linear convergence rate for the outer loop.

[page 10]
10 D. Convergence Analysis of Outer Loop We analyze the convergence properties of the outer loop by establishing the connection between the update rule (40) and the Newton’s method. The outer loop aims to find the root of the functionγ7→F(θ(γ),γ) =0, whereθ(γ) represents the parameters of the NE strategy for the sub-game Gγ. Thus, we consider the Jacobian ofF(θ,γ)with respect toγ. Specifically, the(m, n)-th entry of the Jacobian is given by: [JF (θ,γ)] mn = X k̸=m ∇θk Fm(θm, γm) ∂θk(θ) ∂γn −δ mnDm(θm, γm), (41) whereδ mn is defined as δmn = ( 1,ifm=n, 0,ifm̸=n. We start by analyzing a simplified scenario: the single-agent case without inter-agent dependencies. In this case, the Jacobian simplifies to a diagonal form: [J ′ F (θ,γ)] mm =−D m(θm, γm). (42) Provided the required derivatives are non-zero, the update rule (40) for agentmin the exact Newton’s method step for a single-agent case is γm,i+1 =γ m,i −[J ′ F (θ,γ i)]−1 mm Fm(θm, γm,i) = Nm(θ, γm,i) Dm(θ, γm,i) (43) That is, the single-objective (single-agent) Dinkelbach’s method is equivalent to the Newton’s method, and hence the sequence{γ m,i}converges quadratically toγ ∗ m. However, generating to the multi-agent scenario introduces significant theoretical and computational challenges, as it is difficult to compute ∂θk(θ) ∂γn in the Jacobian (41). For the multi-agent scenario, we consider the update rule (40) within the framework of the inexact Newton method. The inexact Newton method is characterized by the following convergence conditions. Lemma 4.LetL:R n →R n be a continuously differentiable function with a solutionx ∗ whereL ′(x∗)is nonsingular. The inexact Newton iterationx i+1 =x i +s i andL ′(xi)si = −L(xi) +r i, converges linearly tox ⋆ if∥r i∥ ≤η i∥L(xi)∥ for0≤η i ≤η max <1, providedx 0 is sufficiently close tox ∗ [66]. In our context, the update steps i =γ i+1 −γ i for the game Gcan be viewed as theinexactNewton equation: JF (θ,γ i)si =−F(θ,γ i) +r i,(44) wherer i is the residual term. This allows us to adapt convergence analysis of inexact Newton method [66] to our multiagent framework. To establish convergence when employing aninexactNewton method, we require several assumptions regarding the structure of the problem near the equilibrium. These assumptions essentially ensure that the local landscape of the game is sufficiently well-behaved and interactions between agents are appropriately bounded. We define an open neighborhoodN γ ∗ aroundγ ∗ and the subsequent assumptions hold uniformly for allγ∈ N γ ∗. The first assumption guarantees desirable curvature properties for each agent’s local objective component, related to the block-diagonal part of the Hessian ofFwith respect toθ. We denote this Hessian asH:=∇ 2 θF(θ,γ). Assumption 1(Bounded Inverse of Local Hessian Block). For eachm∈ M, we have∥(H θmθm)−1∥∞ ≤1/µ. This assumption is a standard condition in optimization that prevents the Hessian blocksH θmθm, which are related to each agent’s local optimization problem, from being singular or near-singular. We then impose conditions on the denominator term appearing in the average AoI metric, ensuring it is well-behaved and its gradient is bounded. Assumption 2(Bounded Denominator and Gradient).For allm∈ M,D m(θ, γm)is uniformly bounded below by Dmin >0, i.e.,D m(θ, γm)≥D min >0. Additionally, the norm of the gradient ofD m with respect toθ m is bounded: ∥∇θm Dm(θ, γm)∥∞ ≤C D. This assumption prevents division by zero or numerically unstable small values in the objective functionF m, ensuring it remains well-defined and finite. The boundC D on the gradient limits the sensitivity of the denominator to changes inθ m. We also need to control the strength of interactions between different agents. Assumption 3(Bounded Interaction).For allk̸=m, the norm of the first and second order cross-gradients ofF m is bounded as∥∇ θk Fm(θ)∥∞ ≤C int and∥H θkθm ∥= ∥∇2 θkθmFm(θ, γm)∥∞ ≤H int for allm, k. For each agent m, the number of other agentsk̸=mis bounded as: |N grad m |:=|{k̸=m| ∇ θk Fm(θ,γ)̸= 0}| ≤K grad. Similarly, the number of subsystemslinfluencing agentkthrough the Hessian term is bounded by|{k̸=m|H θkθm ̸= 0}| ≤K hess. We defineK= max(K grad, Khess)and assumeKis a constant independent of the system sizeM. This assumption quantifies the coupling among agents by positing that the direct marginal effect of agentk’s parameters θk on agentm’s objectiveF m is bounded. This is a common and reasonable assumption in large systems, reflecting localized rather than global influence. It implies each agent is directly influenced by only a limited numberKof others, independent of the total system sizeM. This reasonably models systems like MEC, where agents (e.g., mobile devices) have limited communication ranges [67]. Based on Lemma 4 and Assumptions 1-3, we are ready to present the convergence result for Algorithm 2 applied to gameG:

[page 11]
11 Fig. 2. Illustration on the proposed asynchronous fractional MADRL framework with fractional cost module, asynchronous trajectory collection mechanism, and hybrid strategy and value networks with R-D3QN and R-PPO. Theorem 2(Linear Convergence of Outer Loop).Assuming Assumptions 1-3 hold, the initialγ 0 is sufficiently close to γ∗, and the conditions KHint µ <1and CDCint Dmin(1/K−Hint) <1 are satisfied, then Algorithm 2 using the inexact Newton step characterized by(44)converges linearly to a Nash Equilibrium of gameG. Please refer to [62, Appendix E] for a detailed proof. Analyzing the convergence of the outer loop, which involves the multi-agent interactions and the inexact Newton method, constitutes a key contribution of this work in Theorem 2. This analysis is achieved under reasonable and justifiable assumptions about the problem structure. VI. ASYNCHRONOUSFRACTIONALMADRL ALGORITHM In this section, we introduce A. F. MADRL, an asynchronous fractional MADRL algorithm. This algorithm achieves NE for the SMG Problem (8) with hybrid action space, as shown in Fig. 2. Building on the fractional MARL framework proposed in Section V, we first introduce a fractional cost module ofγ. This module approximates NE when optimizing the fractional AoI objective in multi-agent scenario. However, when considering the scheduling problem of MEC formulated as SMG, synchronized decision-making and training become inefficient due to asynchronous task completions. To address the challenge of asynchronous decision-making, we introduce an asynchronous trajectory collection mechanism. Additionally, we propose the corresponding hybrid strategy and value networks to apply the mechanism for hybrid action spaces of updating and offloading actions. A. Fractional Cost Module As in the proposed fractional MARL framework in Section V, we consider a set of episodesi∈[E]and introduce a quotient coefficientγ i for episodei. We definea H i = [aH m,i]M m=1, wherea H m,i ≜[(a U m,a O m)]K k=1 as the set of updating and offloading strategies of mobile devicem∈ Min episodei, where superscript ‘H’ refers to ‘history’. At each taskk, we determine a fractional cost and send it for training. This process corresponds to the sub-game of the proposed fractional RL framework. Based on (29), we define the cost for alli∈[E], m∈ M, andk∈ Kas: ci m,k(aH m,a H −m) =Am(Y i m,k, Zi m,k+1, Y i m,k+1) −γ m ·(Y i m,k +Z i m,k+1),(45) where for episodei,Y i m,k denotes the duration of taskk, Z i m,k+1 is the waiting time before generating taskk+ 1, and A(Y i m,k, Zi m,k+1, Y i m,k+1)represents the trapezoid area in (4). Note thatY m,k is a function ofa U m, andZ m,k+1 is a function of(a H m,a H −m). The fractional cost module tracks(a H m,a H −m), or equivalentlyY m,k andZ m,k for allk= 0,1, ..., Kthroughout the training process. Finally, at the end of each episodem, the fractional cost module updatesγ m,i+1 by: γi+1 m = KP k=0 δkAm(Y i m,k, Zi m,k+1, Y i m,k+1) KP k=0 δk(Y i m,k +Z i m,k+1) .(46) B. Asynchronous Trajectory Collection Mechanism Our framework utilize the CTDE paradigm to support asynchronous actions by decoupling execution from training. Specifically, we propose an asynchronous central mechanism that aggregates agent trajectories aligned via a global event indexT. This globally consistent information is then leveraged to train the agents’ policy and value networks. We compare our asynchronous mechanism with traditional MARL and VarlenMARL [49], an asynchronous MADRL algorithm, in the following example:

[page 12]
12 •Traditional MADRL algorithms such as MADDPG [21] and MAPPO require synchronous joint information from all agents at each time step, making them unsuitable for asynchronous decision-makings. Traditional MARL algorithms gather joint data from all agents at each time step. The collected joint trajectory is [(s1,a 1,1,a 2,1),(s 2,a 1,2,a 2,2),(s 3,a 1,3,a 2,3),· · ·]. (47) •VarlenMARL [49], an asynchronous MADRL algorithm, addresses this by allowing variable-length trajectories. However, it still struggles to fully utilize agent interactions in asynchronous environments. It allows agents to collect trajectories asynchronously. It merges an agent’s data with the latest padded data from other agents. Let s0 m,a 0 m be the initial trajectory of agentm. Fig. 3(a) shows the trajectories of Agents1and2as: [(s1,1,a 1,1,(s 2,0,a 2,0)),(s 1,2,a 1,2,(s 2,1,a 2,1)), (s1,3,a 1,3,(s 2,1,a 2,1))· · ·],[(s 2,1,a 2,1,(s 1,1,a 1,1)), (s2,2,a 2,2,(s 1,3,a 1,3)),(s 2,3,a 2,3,(s 1,3,a 1,3)),· · ·]. •Our proposed asynchronous trajectory collection mechanism, illustrated in Fig. 3(b), addresses these limitations. It operates based on a global event sequence managed by the centralized controller. Let(s T ,a T )denote the stateaction pair associated with theT-th global (originating from some agentm T ). To capture the history of interactions among agents, we introduce the time-aggregated history state,H T ∈R d.H T is a fixed-dimensional vector that serves as a summary representation derived from the sequence of all state-action pairs corresponding to global events from1toT−1. This history state is updated sequentially using a history aggregation transition function, denoted asT A. Upon receiving theT-th state-action pair (sT ,a T ), the controller computes the subsequent history stateH T+1 via the update rule: HT+1 =T A((s T ,a T ), HT )(48) whereT A: (S × A)×R d →R d represents the transition function that maps the current event’s stateaction information and the previous history state to the new history state. In our implementation,T Acorresponds to the state transition function of a Gated Recurrent Unit (GRU) network [68], processing an embedding of the input pair(s T ,a T )and the previous hidden stateH T to produce the new hidden stateH T+1 . Implementation details of the RNN networks are provided in Appendix F [62]. The resulting collected trajectory is a sequence ordered by the global event indexT, as shown in Fig. 3(b): [(s1,1,a 1,1, H1),(s 2,1,a 2,1, H2),(s 1,2,a 1,2, H3), (s1,3,a 1,3, H4),(s 2,2,a 2,2, H5),(s 2,3,a 2,3, H6),· · ·]. This mechanism facilitates more accurate evaluations of states andQvalues by leveraging global states, actions, and the aggregated information derived from all agents’ prior action. Global clock Agent 1 Time step Agent 2 Time step 0 1 2 3 4 85 6 7 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 1 2 3 1 2 3 (a) Global clock Agent 1 Time step Agent 2 Time step 0 1 2 3 4 85 6 7 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 1 2 3 1 2 3 (b) Fig. 3. Comparison of trajectory collection mechanisms under VarlenMARL, and our proposed RNN-PPO. (a) In VarlenMARL, an agent collects its trajectory as well as the latest information from other agents. (b) In RNNPPO, agent collects its trajectory with the time-aggregating information from history decision events. C. Hybrid Strategy Network Our algorithm employs independent learners to train hybrid strategy and value networks for each device asynchronously. Within the CTDE framework, each agent inputs both local observations and a shared time-aggregated history (RNN hidden state) from the central trainer. 3 The asynchronous trajectory collection mechanism synthesizes time-aggregating data. It utilizes state-action pairs from other agents and historical events to improve agent interactions. We implement this mechanism with a GRU, forming the RNN-D3QN (R-D3QN) and RNN-PPO (R-PPO) architectures for discrete and continuous actions, respectively. Please refer to Appendix F for details. On a central server, the collected asynchronous trajectories are sampled to perform synchronous parameter updates for all agents’ networks. The resulting offpolicy learning challenge is stabilized by the inherent design of our DRL algorithms (e.g., importance sampling in PPO) and by conditioning updates on the aggregated historical context from the GRU. These hybrid networks address both the task offloading and updating processes. VII. PERFORMANCEEVALUATION We evaluate our fractional multi-agent framework with experiments involving 20 mobile devices. Our experimental setup follows the settings outlined in [12, Table I], with key experiment settings and parameters provided in [62, Appendix G]. We compare our proposed algorithms and baseline algorithms as follows. •Non-Fractional MADRL (denoted by Non-F . MADRL): This benchmark lets each mobile device learn hybrid DRL algorithms individually, without a fractional scheme. The algorithm leverages D3QN to generate discrete offloading decisions, while employing PPO to produce continuous updating decisions. In comparison to our proposed fractional framework, this benchmark 3We centrally train the hybrid networks in a trusted third-party.

[page 13]
13 0 100 200 300 400 500 Convergence 0 1 2 3 4 5 6Average AoI RandomNon-F. MADRLA. Non-F. MADRLA. F. MADRL 0 100 200 300 400 500 Convergence 0 1 2 3 4 5 6Average AoI RandomNon-F. MADRLA. Non-F. MADRLA. F. MADRL (a) (b) Fig. 4. Convergence of (a) average AoI and (b) the exponential moving average values of (Dinkelbach) quotient coefficientsγacross devices, where γis updated every50episodes. The unit of AoI is measured in seconds. is non-fractional and lacks the asynchronous trajectory collection mechanism. It approximates the ratio-ofexpectation average AoI by an expectation-of-ratio expression: minimize πm E h A(Ym,k,Zm,k+1,Ym,k+1) Ym,k+Zm,k+1 πm i . This approximation to tackle the fractional challenge tends to cause large accuracy loss. •Asynchronous Non-Fractional MADRL (denoted by A. Non-F . MADRL): This benchmark incorporates the asynchronous trajectory collection mechanism into the NonF. MADRL algorithm to demonstrate its effectiveness. While it employs the same asynchronous trajectory collection mechanism as our proposed A. F. MADRL algorithm, it lacks the fractional framework. •A. F . MADRL: The proposed A. F. MADRL algorithm incorporates two key elements. First, it uses a fractional scheme to approximate the NE. Second, it employs a trajectory collection mechanism, which aggregates information from both historical records and other agents. •Random: This method randomly schedules updating and offloading decisions within the action spaces. •H-MAPPO: Multi-agent proximal policy optimization [23] with hybrid action spaces. •VarlenMARL: VarLenMARL [49] implements independent time steps with variable lengths for each agent. It utilizes a synchronized delay-tolerant mechanism to enhance performance. This approach is discussed in Section II and VI. •F . DRL: Fractional DRL (F. DRL) [1] adapts fractional framework based on Dinkelbach method on DRL algorithms without considering the multi agent scenario. •HAPPO: Heterogeneous-Agent Proximal Policy Optimisation (HAPPO) algorithms [69] with hybrid action spaces. •PGOW: Potential-game-inspired offloading & waiting baseline (PGOW) that combinesϵ-greedy best-response offloading with log-linear learning for waiting. The offloading strategy considers estimated service time and queue-dependent congestion. These dynamics are standard in potential game settings [70], [71]. •ASM: Asynchronous and Scalable Multi-agent Proximal Policy Optimization (ASM-PPO) [51] allows asynchronous learning and decision-making based on PPO. Our experiments first evaluate the convergence of our proposed algorithms. We then compare their performance against baselines. The average AoI at the evaluation is computed using the following equation: ∆m = KP k=0 Am(Ym,k, Zm,k+1, Ym,k+1) KP k=0 (Ym,k +Z m,k+1) .(49) Our experiments systematically evaluate the impacts of several factors: edge capacity, drop coefficient, task density, mobile capacity, processing variance, and number of agents. Convergence: Fig. 4 illustrates the convergence result of the Non-F. DRL algorithm, as well as proposed A. Non-F. MADRL and A. F. MADRL algorithms. We examine two key aspects: the convergence of the average AoI and that of the average fractional coefficient,γ, which should converge concurrently. In Fig. 4(a), both A. Non-F. MADRL and A. F. MADRL algorithms are shown to converge after approximately 300 episodes. Notably, A. F. MADRL achieves a 50.6% reduction in converged average AoI compared to Non-F. DRL, demonstrating the efficacy of the proposed fractional framework. Furthermore, the performance difference between A. F. MADRL and A. Non-F. MADRL shows the substantial impact of the asynchronous trajectory collection mechanism. On the other hand, the random scheme in fact cannot converge. Instead, the average value in Fig. 4(b) gradually approached its average AoI in Fig. 4(a), starting from its initial value. Edge Capacity: In Fig. 5(a), we evaluate different processing capacities of edge servers. The use of the fractional cost module in A. F. MADRL results in an average AoI reduction of 31.1% compared to the A. Non-F MADRL approach. The proposed A. F. MADRL algorithm consistently achieves smaller average AoI compared to other benchmarks that don’t consider fractional AoI and asynchronous settings. A. F. MADRL reduces the average AoI by up to 21.9% compared with F. DRL at 35 GHz. We observe that the performance gap between the proposed A. F. MADRL and other baseline schemes becomes more pronounced when the edge capacity is limited. These results demonstrate that an optimized design tailored for asynchronous settings can achieve superior performance, especially in resource-constrained environments. Drop Coefficient: Fig. 5(b) illustrates the results of different drop coefficients, which are the ratios of drop time ¯Yto the task processing duration. While the average AoI of random scheduling decreases as the drop coefficient increases, other RL techniques show no clear trend. This suggests that the updating policy may serve as a dropping mechanism. With different drop coefficients, our proposed A. F. MADRL algorithm achieves approximately 33.8% less average AoI compared against H-MAPPO on average. Task Density: Fig. 5(c) shows the AoI performance under varying task densities. These densities affect overall task loads and expected processing duration at mobile devices and edge servers. Non-A. F. MADRL outperforms Non-F. MADRL by 37.7% on average. Additionally, our A. F. MADRL algorithm outperforms all other benchmarks. At high task density (65

[page 14]
14 25 35 45 55 65 75 Edge Capacity (GHz) 0 1 2 3 4 5 6Average AoI RandomH-MAPPOVarlenMADRLHAPPOPGOW Non-F. MADRLA. Non-F. MADRLA. F. MADRLF. DRLASM 1 1.2 1.4 1.6 1.8 2 Drop Coefficient 0 1 2 3 4 5 6Average AoI RandomH-MAPPOVarlenMADRLHAPPOPGOW Non-F. MADRLA. Non-F. MADRLA. F. MADRLF. DRLASM 15 25 35 45 55 65 Task Density (Gigacycles per Mbits) 0 5 10 15Average AoI RandomH-MAPPOVarlenMADRLHAPPOPGOW Non-F. MADRLA. Non-F. MADRLA. F. MADRLF. DRLASM (a) (b) (c) 1 2 3 4 5 6 Mobile Device Capacity (GHz) 0 2 4 6 8 10Average AoI RandomH-MAPPOVarlenMADRLHAPPOPGOW Non-F. MADRLA. Non-F. MADRLA. F. MADRLF. DRLASM 0.5 0.7 0.9 1.1 1.3 1.5 Processing Variance 0 5 10 15 20Average AoI RandomH-MAPPOVarlenMADRLHAPPOPGOW Non-F. MADRLA. Non-F. MADRLA. F. MADRLF. DRLASM 15 25 35 45 55 65 Agent Number 0 1 2 3 4 5 6Average AoI RandomH-MAPPOVarlenMADRLHAPPOPGOW Non-F. MADRLA. Non-F. MADRLA. F. MADRLF. DRLASM (d) (e) (f) Fig. 5. Performance under different (a) processing capacities of edges, (b) drop coefficients, (c) task densities, (d) processing capacities of mobile devices, (e) processing variances, and (f) numbers of agents. Gigacycles per Mbit), A. F. MADRL reduces the average AoI by up to 38.8% compared to F. DRL. These results demonstrate the effectiveness of our asynchronous trajectory collection mechanism, especially when computational resources are highly required. Mobile Capacity: Fig. 5(d), presents results for different mobile device capacities. Our A. F. MADRL algorithm reduces average AoI by 20.4% on average compared to F. DRL algorithm. The performance differences diminish as mobile device computational capacities increase, primarily because devices with higher processing capabilities can handle most tasks locally. Consequently, the effectiveness of task scheduling diminishes. Processing Variance: Fig. 5(e) demonstrates the performance of algorithms under different variances of processing time. In this particular experiment, processing times are modeled using a lognormal distribution. Our A. F. MADRL algorithm outperforms F. DRL algorithm by up to 30.7% when the processing variance is 1.1. These results demonstrate the robustness of our asynchronous trajectory collection mechanism under lognormal processing time distributions. Number of Mobile Devices: Fig. 5(f) shows the performance with varying numbers of mobile devices and fixed edge servers. Specifically, under large-scale settings with 55 and 65 agents, where competition for edge-server queues becomes severe, A.F. MADRL achieves up to 61.4% and 60.7% performance improvements, respectively. These results demonstrate that our proposed framework scales robustly as competition for resources intensifies. Bandwidth of Time-Varying Channels:We compare the 6 8 10 12 14 Channel Bandwidth (MHz) 0 5 10 15 20Average AoI RandomH-MAPPOVarlenMADRLHAPPOPGOW Non-F. MADRLA. Non-F. MADRLA. F. MADRLF. DRLASM Fig. 6. Performance under different channel bandwidths with time-varying channels. average AoI between proposed A.F. MADRL algorithm and other baselines in Section VII under different bandwidths. We set the channel parameters as in Table III, Appendix F. As in Fig. 6, traditional multi-agent DRL algorithms that train synchronously like MAPPO cannot converge well because the non-stationary time-varying channel causes additional asynchrony between agents. Our algorithm outperforms the best baseline F. DRL. by about 15.6 % on average. The performance gap between most algorithms narrow at lower channel bandwidth because as the transmitting time increases, the strategy of offloading to edges cannot work well compared to processing locally. Additionally, we compare the computational requirement of our proposed A. F. MADRL algorithm and compare it with

[page 15]
15 TABLE I COMPUTATIONALREQUIREMENTS OFDIFFERENTSCHEMES A. F. MADRL Non-F. MADRL H-MAPPO VarlenMARL MFLOPs 17.86 16.39 10.90 15.65 the other baseline algorithms: Non-F. MADRL, H-MAPPO, and VarlenMARL. These experiments were performed under identical system and network settings, including 20 agents, a batch size of 16, and the use of hybrid action spaces. The results are summarized in Table I. As shown in Table I, the computational complexity of A. F. MADRL, measured in MFLOPs, is indeed higher than that of the baseline algorithms. However, it is important to note that our algorithm’s complexity is only slightly higher than that of VarlenMARL (1.14×), which also employs the asynchronous decision-making mechanism as our algorithm. Crucially, the slightly increased computational cost of A. F. MADRL is accompanied by significant performance gains in terms of AoI reduction, as demonstrated in Fig. 5. We believe that this trade-off between computational cost and AoI performance is acceptable for many real-time applications where timely information updates are critical. VIII. CONCLUSION In this paper, we proposed three schemes for computational task scheduling (including offloading and updating) ageminimal MEC in a semi-Markov game. First, we introduce a fractional RL framework for the single-agent scenario with fractional objectives. Second, we develop a fractional MARL framework for fractional scheme in multi-agent scenarios. We demonstrate that this framework theoretically converges to Nash equilibrium by showing that it is equivalent to an inexact Newton’s method. Third, we present an asynchronous trajectory collection mechanism to address asynchronous multiagent problems in the SMG. Evaluation results show significant performance improvements in average AoI for both the fractional framework and asynchronous trajectory collection mechanism. In future work, it is worth concerning AoI-related challenges, such as timely multi-task remote inference [72], as well as problems that can be formulated with fractional objectives, including energy consumption and security satisfaction in MEC systems. REFERENCES [1] L. Jin, M. Tang, M. Zhang, and H. Wang, “Fractional deep reinforcement learning for age-minimal mobile edge computing,” inProceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence, vol. 38, no. 11, 2024, pp. 12 947–12 955. [2] D. Katare, D. Perino, J. Nurmi, M. Warnier, M. Janssen, and A. Y . Ding, “A survey on approximate edge ai for energy efficient autonomous driving services,”IEEE Communications Surveys & Tutorials, 2023. [3] Z. Xu, W. Jiang, J. Xu, Y . Deng, S. Cheng, and J. Zhao, “A power-gridmapping edge computing structure for digital distributed distribution networks,”IEEE Transactions on Smart Grid, 2023. [4] J. Jin, K. Yu, J. Kua, N. Zhang, Z. Pang, and Q.-L. Han, “Cloudfog automation: Vision, enabling technologies, and future research directions,”IEEE Transactions on Industrial Informatics, vol. 20, no. 2, pp. 1039–1054, 2023. [5] P. Porambageet al., “Survey on multi-access edge computing for Internet of things realization,”IEEE Commun. Surveys & Tuts., vol. 20, no. 4, pp. 2961–2991, Jun. 2018. [6] Y . Mao, C. You, J. Zhang, K. Huang, and K. B. Letaief, “A survey on mobile edge computing: The communication perspective,”IEEE communications surveys & tutorials, vol. 19, no. 4, pp. 2322–2358, 2017. [7] C. Zhu, G. Pastor, Y . Xiao, and A. Ylajaaski, “Vehicular fog computing for video crowdsourcing: Applications, feasibility, and challenges,”IEEE Communications Magazine, vol. 56, no. 10, pp. 58–63, 2018. [8] X. Xu, K. Liu, K. Xiao, L. Feng, Z. Wu, and S. Guo, “Vehicular fog computing enabled real-time collision warning via trajectory calibration,”Mobile Networks and Applications, vol. 25, pp. 2482–2494, 2020. [9] S. El Zaatari, M. Marei, W. Li, and Z. Usman, “Cobot programming for collaborative industrial tasks: An overview,”Robotics and Autonomous Systems, vol. 116, pp. 162–180, 2019. [10] S. Kaul, R. Yates, and M. Gruteser, “Real-time status: How often should one update?” inProc. IEEE INFOCOM, 2012, pp. 2731–2735. [11] S. Wang, Y . Guo, N. Zhang, P. Yang, A. Zhou, and X. Shen, “Delayaware microservice coordination in mobile edge computing: A reinforcement learning approach,”IEEE Trans. Mobile Comput., vol. 20, no. 3, pp. 939 – 951, Mar. 2021. [12] M. Tang and V . W. Wong, “Deep reinforcement learning for task offloading in mobile edge computing systems,”IEEE Trans. Mobile Comput., vol. 21, no. 6, pp. 1985–1997, 2022. [13] R. D. Yates, Y . Sun, D. R. Brown, S. K. Kaul, E. Modiano, and S. Ulukus, “Age of information: An introduction and survey,”IEEE Journal on Selected Areas in Communications, vol. 39, no. 5, pp. 1183– 1210, 2021. [14] R. Talak and E. H. Modiano, “Age-delay tradeoffs in queueing systems,” IEEE Trans. Inform. Theory, vol. 67, no. 3, pp. 1743–1758, 2021. [15] J. Hao, T. Yang, H. Tang, C. Bai, J. Liu, Z. Meng, P. Liu, and Z. Wang, “Exploration in deep reinforcement learning: From singleagent to multiagent domain,”IEEE Transactions on Neural Networks and Learning Systems, 2023. [16] H. Ma, P. Huang, Z. Zhou, X. Zhang, and X. Chen, “Greenedge: Joint green energy scheduling and dynamic task offloading in multi-tier edge computing systems,”IEEE Transactions on Vehicular Technology, vol. 71, no. 4, pp. 4322–4335, Apr. 2022. [17] N. Zhao, Z. Ye, Y . Pei, Y .-C. Liang, and D. Niyato, “Multi-agent deep reinforcement learning for task offloading in UA V-assisted mobile edge computing,”IEEE Trans. Wireless Commun., 2022. [18] X. He, S. Wang, X. Wang, S. Xu, and J. Ren, “Age-based scheduling for monitoring and control applications in mobile edge computing systems,” inProc. IEEE INFOCOM, May 2022. [19] X. Chenet al., “Information freshness-aware task offloading in airground integrated edge computing systems,”IEEE J. Sel. Areas Commun., vol. 40, no. 1, pp. 243–258, Jan. 2022. [20] C. Xuet al., “AoI-centric task scheduling for autonomous driving systems,” inProc. IEEE INFOCOM, May 2022. [21] R. Lowe, Y . I. Wu, A. Tamar, J. Harb, O. Pieter Abbeel, and I. Mordatch, “Multi-agent actor-critic for mixed cooperative-competitive environments,”Advances in neural information processing systems, vol. 30, 2017. [22] T. Rashid, M. Samvelyan, C. S. De Witt, G. Farquhar, J. Foerster, and S. Whiteson, “Monotonic value function factorisation for deep multi-agent reinforcement learning,”The Journal of Machine Learning Research, vol. 21, no. 1, pp. 7234–7284, 2020. [23] C. Yu, A. Velu, E. Vinitsky, J. Gao, Y . Wang, A. Bayen, and Y . Wu, “The surprising effectiveness of ppo in cooperative multi-agent games,”Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, vol. 35, pp. 24 611– 24 624, 2022. [24] W. Dinkelbach, “On nonlinear fractional programming,”Management science, vol. 13, no. 7, pp. 492–498, May 1967. [25] J. Hu and M. P. Wellman, “Nash q-learning for general-sum stochastic games,”Journal of machine learning research, vol. 4, no. Nov, pp. 1039– 1069, 2003. [26] Y . Chen, J. Zhao, J. Hu, S. Wan, and J. Huang, “Distributed task offloading and resource purchasing in noma-enabled mobile edge computing: Hierarchical game theoretical approaches,”ACM Trans. Embed. Comput. Syst., vol. 23, no. 1, jan 2024. [27] H. Taka, F. He, and E. Oki, “Service placement and user assignment in multi-access edge computing with base-station failure,” inProc. IEEE/ACM IWQoS, Jun. 2022. [28] S. Liu, C. Zheng, Y . Huang, and T. Q. S. Quek, “Distributed reinforcement learning for privacy-preserving dynamic edge caching,”IEEE J. Sel. Areas Commun., vol. 40, no. 3, pp. 749–760, Mar. 2022.

[page 16]
16 [29] X. Wang, J. Ye, and J. C. Lui, “Decentralized task offloading in edge computing: A multi-user multi-armed bandit approach,” inProc. IEEE Conference on Computer Communications (INFOCOM), May 2022. [30] L. Huang, S. Bi, and Y .-J. A. Zhang, “Deep reinforcement learning for online computation offloading in wireless powered mobile-edge computing networks,”IEEE Trans. Mobile Comput., vol. 19, no. 11, pp. 2581 – 2593, Nov. 2020. [31] S. Tuliet al., “Dynamic scheduling for stochastic edge-cloud computing environments using A3C learning and residual recurrent neural networks,”IEEE Trans. Mobile Comput., vol. 21, no. 3, Mar. 2022. [32] T. Liuet al., “Deep reinforcement learning based approach for online service placement and computation resource allocation in edge computing,”IEEE Trans. Mobile Comput., 2022. [33] Q. Li, X. Ma, A. Zhou, X. Luo, F. Yang, and S. Wang, “User-oriented edge node grouping in mobile edge computing,”IEEE Transactions on Mobile Computing, 2021. [34] Z. Feng, M. Huang, Y . Wu, D. Wu, J. Cao, I. Korovin, S. Gorbachev, and N. Gorbacheva, “Approximating nash equilibrium for anti-uav jamming markov game using a novel event-triggered multi-agent reinforcement learning,”Neural Networks, vol. 161, pp. 330–342, 2023. [Online]. Available: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/ S0893608022005226 [35] F. Yuan, S. Tang, and D. Liu, “Aoi-based transmission scheduling for cyber-physical systems over fading channel against eavesdropping,” IEEE Internet of Things Journal, 2023. [36] X. Fu, Q. Pan, and X. Huang, “Aoi-energy-aware collaborative data collection in uav-enabled wireless powered sensor networks,”IEEE Sensors Journal, 2023. [37] R. D. Yates, Y . Sun, D. R. Brown, S. K. Kaul, E. Modiano, and S. Ulukus, “Age of information: An introduction and survey,”IEEE J. Sel. Areas Commun., vol. 39, no. 5, pp. 1183–1210, 2021. [38] F. Chiariotti, O. Vikhrova, B. Soret, and P. Popovski, “Peak age of information distribution for edge computing with wireless links,”IEEE Trans. Commun., vol. 69, no. 5, pp. 3176–3191, 2021. [39] J. Zhu and J. Gong, “Optimizing peak age of information in mec systems: Computing preemption and non-preemption,”IEEE/ACM Transactions on Networking, vol. 32, no. 4, pp. 3285–3300, 2024. [40] ——, “Multi-source peak age of information optimization in mobile edge computing systems,”IEEE Transactions on Networking, 2025. [41] E. T. Ceran, D. G ¨und¨uz, and A. Gy ¨orgy, “A reinforcement learning approach to age of information in multi-user networks with HARQ,” IEEE J. Sel. Areas Commun., vol. 39, no. 5, pp. 1412–1426, 2021. [42] M. Akbariet al., “Age of information aware vnf scheduling in industrial iot using deep reinforcement learning,”IEEE J. Sel. Areas Commun., vol. 39, no. 8, pp. 2487–2500, 2021. [43] X. Chenet al., “Age of information aware radio resource management in vehicular networks: A proactive deep reinforcement learning perspective,”IEEE Trans. Wireless Commun., vol. 19, no. 4, 2020. [44] F. Wu, H. Zhang, J. Wu, Z. Han, H. V . Poor, and L. Song, “UA Vto-device underlay communications: Age of information minimization by multi-agent deep reinforcement learning,”IEEE Transactions on Communications, vol. 69, no. 7, pp. 4461–4475, 2021. [45] Z. Ren and B. Krogh, “Markov decision processes with fractional costs,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol. 50, no. 5, pp. 646–650, 2005. [46] T. Tanaka, “A partially observable discrete time markov decision process with a fractional discounted reward,”Journal of Information and Optimization Sciences, vol. 38, no. 1, pp. 21–37, 2017. [47] W. Suttle, K. Zhang, Z. Yang, J. Liu, and D. Kraemer, “Reinforcement learning for cost-aware markov decision processes,” inProceedings of the 38th International Conference on Machine Learning, ser. Proceedings of Machine Learning Research, M. Meila and T. Zhang, Eds., vol. 139. PMLR, 18–24 Jul 2021, pp. 9989–9999. [Online]. Available: https://proceedings.mlr.press/v139/suttle21a.html [48] Y . Xiao, W. Tan, and C. Amato, “Asynchronous actor-critic for multiagent reinforcement learning,”Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, vol. 35, pp. 4385–4400, 2022. [49] Y . Chen, H. Wu, Y . Liang, and G. Lai, “Varlenmarl: A framework of variable-length time-step multi-agent reinforcement learning for cooperative charging in sensor networks,” in2021 18th Annual IEEE International Conference on Sensing, Communication, and Networking (SECON). IEEE, 2021, pp. 1–9. [50] J. Wang and L. Sun, “Reducing bus bunching with asynchronous multiagent reinforcement learning,”arXiv preprint arXiv:2105.00376, 2021. [51] Y . Liang, H. Wu, and H. Wang, “Asm-ppo: Asynchronous and scalable multi-agent ppo for cooperative charging,” inProceedings of the 21st International Conference on Autonomous Agents and Multiagent Systems, 2022, pp. 798–806. [52] ——, “Asynchronous multi-agent reinforcement learning for collaborative partial charging in wireless rechargeable sensor networks,”IEEE Transactions on Mobile Computing, 2023. [53] Y . Sun, E. Uysal-Biyikoglu, R. D. Yates, C. E. Koksal, and N. B. Shroff, “Update or wait: How to keep your data fresh,”IEEE Trans. Inform. Theory, vol. 63, no. 11, pp. 7492–7508, 2017. [54] A. Arafa, R. D. Yates, and H. V . Poor, “Timely cloud computing: Preemption and waiting,” inProc. Allerton, 2019. [55] Y . Sun and B. Cyr, “Sampling for data freshness optimization: Nonlinear age functions,”Journal of Communications and Networks, vol. 21, no. 3, pp. 204–219, 2019. [56] A. Arafa, J. Yang, S. Ulukus, and H. V . Poor, “Age-minimal transmission for energy harvesting sensors with finite batteries: Online policies,”IEEE Transactions on Information Theory, vol. 66, no. 1, pp. 534–556, 2019. [57] M. Zhang, A. Arafa, J. Huang, and H. V . Poor, “Pricing fresh data,” IEEE J. Sel. Areas Commun., vol. 39, no. 5, pp. 1211–1225, 2021. [58] Z. Tang, Z. Sun, N. Yang, and X. Zhou, “Age of information analysis of multi-user mobile edge computing systems,” inProc. IEEE GLOBECOM, Dec. 2021. [59] J. Zhu and J. Gong, “Online scheduling of transmission and processing for aoi minimization with edge computing,” inProc. IEEE INFOCOM WKSHPS, May 2022. [60] J. Li, Y . Zhou, and H. Chen, “Age of information for multicast transmission with fixed and random deadlines in IoT systems,”IEEE Internet of Things Journal, vol. 7, no. 9, pp. 8178–8191, Sep. 2020. [61] M. Ghavamzadeh, H. Kappen, M. Azar, and R. Munos, “Speedy qlearning,” inProc. Neural Info. Process. Syst. (NIPS), vol. 24, 2011. [62] L. Jin, M. Tang, J. Pan, M. Zhang, and H. Wang, “Asynchronous fractional multi-agent deep reinforcement learning for age-minimal mobile edge computing,” 2024. [Online]. Available: https://arxiv.org/ abs/2409.16832 [63] D. Adelman and A. J. Mersereau, “Relaxations of Weakly Coupled Stochastic Dynamic Programs,”Operations Research, Jan. 2008, publisher: INFORMS. [Online]. Available: https://pubsonline.informs. org/doi/abs/10.1287/opre.1070.0445 [64] A. M. Fink, “Equilibrium in a stochasticn-person game,”Journal of science of the hiroshima university, series ai (mathematics), vol. 28, no. 1, pp. 89–93, 1964. [65] P. Casgrain, B. Ning, and S. Jaimungal, “Deep q-learning for nash equilibria: Nash-dqn,”Applied Mathematical Finance, vol. 29, no. 1, pp. 62–78, 2022. [66] R. S. Dembo, S. C. Eisenstat, and T. Steihaug, “Inexact newton methods,”SIAM Journal on Numerical analysis, vol. 19, no. 2, pp. 400–408, 1982. [67] Y . C. Hu, M. Patel, D. Sabella, N. Sprecher, and V . Young, “Mobile edge computing—a key technology towards 5g,”ETSI white paper, vol. 11, no. 11, pp. 1–16, 2015. [68] J. Chung, C. Gulcehre, K. Cho, and Y . Bengio, “Empirical evaluation of gated recurrent neural networks on sequence modeling,”arXiv preprint arXiv:1412.3555, 2014. [69] J. G. Kuba, R. Chen, M. Wen, Y . Wen, F. Sun, J. Wang, and Y . Yang, “Trust region policy optimisation in multi-agent reinforcement learning,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2109.11251, 2021. [70] D. Monderer and L. S. Shapley, “Potential games,”Games and economic behavior, vol. 14, no. 1, pp. 124–143, 1996. [71] L. E. Blume, “The statistical mechanics of strategic interaction,”Games and economic behavior, vol. 5, no. 3, pp. 387–424, 1993. [72] M. K. C. Shisher, A. Piaseczny, Y . Sun, and C. G. Brinton, “Computation and communication co-scheduling for timely multi-task inference at the wireless edge,”arXiv preprint arXiv:2501.04231, 2025. [73] V . Mnihet al., “Human-level control through deep reinforcement learning,”Nature, vol. 518, no. 7540, pp. 529–533, Feb. 2015. [74] H. Van Hasselt, A. Guez, and D. Silver, “Deep reinforcement learning with double q-learning,” inProceedings of the AAAI conference on artificial intelligence, vol. 30, no. 1, 2016. [75] Z. Wang, T. Schaul, M. Hessel, H. Hasselt, M. Lanctot, and N. Freitas, “Dueling network architectures for deep reinforcement learning,” in International conference on machine learning. PMLR, 2016, pp. 1995– 2003. [76] M. Hausknecht and P. Stone, “Deep recurrent q-learning for partially observable mdps,” in2015 aaai fall symposium series, 2015.

[page 17]
17 APPENDIXA TIMECOMPLEXITY OFINNER LOOP INFQL ALGORITHM Proposition 1.The proposed FQL Algorithm satisfies the stopping conditionϵ i <−αQ i(s0,a i)for someα∈(0,1), then after Ti = 11.66 log(2|Z|/(Eζ)) α2  (50) steps of SQL in [61], the uniform approximation error∥Q ∗ γi − Qi∥ ≤ϵ i holds for alli∈[E], with a probability of1−ζfor anyζ∈(0,1). Proof Sketch: The main proof of Proposition 1 is based on [61]. Specifically, we can prove that the requiredT i is proportional toQ 2 i /ϵ2 i , and hence corresponding to a constant upper bound. Proposition 1 shows that the total steps neededT i does not increase ini, even though the stopping conditionϵ i < −αQi(s0,a i)is getting more restrictive asiincreases. APPENDIXB PROOF OFTHEOREM1 Define a∗(γ)≜arg max a∈A (Nγ(s0,a)−γD γ(s0,a)), Q(γ)≜max a∈A (Nγ(s0,a)−γD γ(s0,a)), N(γ) =N γ(s0,a ∗(γ)) andD(γ) =D γ(s0,a ∗(γ)), P(γ) = N(γ) D(γ) , ai ≜arg max a∈A (Nk(s0,a)−γD k(s0,a)), (51a) for allγ≥0. In the remaining part of this proof, we use Qi =Q i(s0,a i),N i =N i(s0,a i), andD i =D i(s0,a i)for presentation simplicity. Note that N(γ ′) D(γ ′) − Ni Di (a) ≥ N(γ ′) D(γ ′) − N(γ ′) Di −γ  D(γ ′) Di − D(γ ′) D(γ)  − ϵi Di = [−Q(γ ′) + (γi −γ ′)D(γ ′)]  1 Di − 1 D(γ ′)  − ϵi Di , where (a) is from the suboptimality ofN i. Sequences{γ i}, {Qi}, and{D i}generated by FQL Algorithm satisfy γi −γ ∗ ≥γ i −N i/Di =−Q i/Di > ϵ i/αDi, (52) for allisuch thatQ i <0. In addition, from the fact that Ni −γ iDi ≤N(γ ∗)−γ iD(γ ∗)andN(γ ∗)−γ ∗D(γ ∗)≤N i − γ∗Di for alli∈[E], it follows that(γ i −γ ∗)(D(γ ∗)−D i)≤ 0,∀i∈[E],and henceγ i ≥γ ∗ if and only ifD i ≥D(γ ∗). It follows from (52) that, for alli, γi+1 −γ ∗ =P i −γ ∗ ≤(γ i −γ ∗)  1− D(γ ∗) Di  + ϵi Di (b) <(γ i −γ ∗)  1 +α− D(γ ∗) Di  . Note that(b)is inducted from (52). Specifically, ifγ i < γ ∗, thenγ i+1 < γ ∗. Therefore, we have that, ifQ i <0then Qi+1 <0, and hence thatϵ i ≤ −αQ i for alli∈[E]. LetD max = maxs,a{ cN (s,a) cD(s,a) }, Dmin = mins,a{ cN (s,a) cD(s,a) }. We have Dmin Dmax ∈(0,1). Therefore, we can find anα∈(0, Dmin Dmax ), such that(γ i+1 −γ ∗)/(γi −γ ∗)∈(0,1)for all large enough i, which implies that{γ i}converges linearly toγ ∗. APPENDIXC APPROXIMATING THENASHOPERATOR One can use the iterative best response algorithm to refine a joint action from an initial guessa (0) towards an approximate Nash operator. In each Q-learning iterationj, upon reaching a new states, each agentmsequentially updates its action to its best response, maximizing its individual Q-function given the other agents’ actions from the previous iterationa (j−1) −m . This best responsea (j) m for agentmis computed as: a(j) m = arg max am Qk γm(s′,a m,a (j−1) −m ),(53) whereQ k γm denotes the Q-function of agentmat iterationj. The joint action is then updated toa (j) = (a(j) 1 , ...,a (j) m , ...,a (j) M ), incorporating the newly computed best response. After a few steps of this iterative refinement, the resulting joint actiona (j) serves as our approximation of the Nash equilibrium in states ′. Consequently, we can approximate N a∈A Qk γ(s′,a)withQ k γ(s′,a (j)), which is then used to update the Q-value in Equation (32). This iterative procedure allows agents to converge towards a Nash equilibrium by sequentially optimizing their actions in response to the actions of others, effectively approximating the action of the Nash operator. APPENDIXD PROOF OFLEMMA3 The Bellman equation form ofV γm of mobile devicemis given by: Vγm(s,π) =E π {cNm(s,a)−γ mcDm(s,a) +EP r[δVγm(s′,π)]]}. LetB(S)denote the Banach space of bounded real-valued functions onSwith the supremum norm. LetW π :B(S)→ B(S)be the mapping: WπVγm(s,π) = min πm Eπ {[cNm(s,a)−γ mcDm(s,a) +δEP r[Vγm(s′,π)]]}. From [64], we have the following conclusion: Theorem C.3.(Contraction Mapping ofW π) For any fixed γm ands∈ S,W π is a contraction mapping ofR. By Theorem C.3, the sequenceV 0 γm = 0,V k+1 γm =W πV k γm converges to the optimal costV ⋆ γm(s): V ⋆ γm(s) = min πm Eπ {cNm(s,a)−γ mcDm(s,a) +δEP r[V ⋆ γm(s′)] .

[page 18]
18 Lemma C.5.V ⋆ γm is continuous with respect toγ m. Proof.Define functionfas f(γ m,π,s) =E π {cNm(s,a)−γ mcDm(s,a) +δEP r[V ∗ γm(s′)] . From (54), we have V ⋆ γm(s) = min πm f(γ m,π,s). (54) Sincec Nm(s,a),c Dm(s,a)is continuous with respect toπ, we havef(γ m,π,s)is continuous with respect toπandγ m. Thus, as the set ofπis a compact set, by Berge’s maximum theorem, we haveV ⋆ γm(s)is continuous with respect toγ m. ■ Sincec Nm(s,a),c Dm(s,a)are continuous with respect to γm, we have Nash operatorN a∈A is continuous with respect toγ m. From (34), we haveN γm(s), Dγm(s)are continuous with respect toγ m. Define a compact and convex setΓ = [0, γ]M , where γ= max s,a n cN,m (s,a) cD,m(s,a) o . We can thus define the mappingT: Γ→Γ ofγin Algorithm 2 as: Tγ= " E s0∼µ0 " N ⋆ γ1(s0) D ⋆ γ1(s0) # , . . . , E s0∼µ0 " N ⋆ γM (s0) D ⋆ γM (s0) ##T . (55) Theorem C.4.(Existence of Fixed Point) There exists a fixed pointγ ∗ for mappingT∈Γ, such thatTγ ∗ =γ ∗. Proof.SinceD γm(s0)>0, mappingTis continuous onγ. We haveΓis a compact and convex set. By the Brouwer fixed point theorem, there exists a fixed pointγ ⋆ ∈Γfor continuous mappingT.■ Therefore, there existsγ ∗, such thatTγ ∗ =γ ∗. Then we have E s0∼µ0 h N γ∗ (s0) Dγ∗ (s0) i =γ ∗. Thus, we haveF(θ ∗,γ ∗) = E s0∼µ0 h N ⋆ γ ∗(s0) i −γ ∗ E s0∼µ0 h D ⋆ γ ∗(s0) i = 0. APPENDIXE PROOF OFTHEOREM2 By Lemma 3, for eachγ, there exists mappingθ(γ)that satisfies the NE conditions. For simplicity, we denoteθas θ(γ)andθ i asθ(γ i). Assuming differentiability, these are the first-order necessary conditions where each agent optimizes its objective given the others’ parameters: Wm(θ, γm) :=∇ θmFm(θ, γm) =∇ θmNm(θ)−γ m∇θm Dm(θ) =0 (56) for allm∈ M. LetW(θ,γ) = (W1(θ, γ1), . . . , WM(θ, γM))be the stacked vector of these gradient conditions. The equilibrium condition is thus W(θ,γ) =0. We focus on a specific equilibrium point θcorresponding toγ. From Assumption 1 , we haveW is invertible andθis locally a differentiable function of γaroundγ. By the Implicit Function Theorem (IFT), its Jacobian is given by: ∇γ θ(γ) =−[∇ θW(θ,γ)] −1[∇γ W(θ,γ)].(57) We denote the Jacobian ofWwith respect toθas JW (θ,γ). Its(m, n)-th block is given by: (JW (θ,γ)) mn =∇θn Wm(θ, γm) =∇ 2 θnθmFm(θ, γm) =∇2 θnθmNm(θ)−γ m∇2 θnθm Dm(θ). (58) We denote the Jacobian ofWwith respect toγas∇ γ W. Its (m, n)-th block is given by ∂Wm ∂γn (θ,γ) = ∂ ∂γn [∇θm Nm(θ)−γ m∇θmDm(θ)] =−δ mn∇θmDm(θ)(59) Then-th column of∇ γ W, denoted ∂W ∂γn (θ,γ), is given by: ∂W ∂γn (θ,γ) =   0 ... 0 −∇θn Dn(θ) 0 ... 0   .(60) Let((J W )−1)mk denote the(m, k)-th block of the inverse matrix(J W )−1. By the IFT formula, thej-th block of the sensitivity vector is given by: ∂θm ∂γn =− MX k=1 ((JW (θ,γ)) −1)mk  ∂Wk ∂γn (θ,γ)  = ((JW (θ,γ)) −1)mn∇θn Dn(θ). (61) We then have the bound as follows. Lemma C.6.By Assumption 3 and 1, there existsκ∈(0,1), JW is invertible, and the blockL ∞ norm of its inverse is bounded by: ∥(JW )−1∥∞ ≤ maxk ∥((JW )kk)−1∥ 1−κ . Proof.From Assumption 3 and 1, we have that X l̸=k ∥((JW )−1)kk)−1(JW )−1)kl∥ ≤∥((JW )−1)kk)−1∥∥(JW )−1)kl∥ ≤ KHint µ <1. (62) Thus, there existsκ∈(0,1), such that κ= KHint µ .

[page 19]
19 The block inverse formula gives ((JW )−1)kn =δkn((JW )kk)−1 − X l̸=k ((JW )kk)−1(JW )kl((JW )−1)ln. (63) Taking the norm and summing overn, X n ∥((JW )−1)kn∥ ≤∥((JW )kk)−1∥+ X l̸=k ∥((JW )kk)−1(JW )kl∥ · X n ∥((JW )−1)ln∥. (64) Takingmax k on both sides, max k X n ∥((JW )−1)kn∥ ≤max k ∥((JW )kk)−1∥+κmax k X n ∥((JW )−1)kn∥. (65) Thus, we have (1−κ) max k X n ∥((JW )−1)kn∥ ≤max k ∥((JW )kk)−1∥, and max k X n ∥((JW )−1)kn∥ ≤ maxk ∥((JW )kk)−1∥ 1−κ . ■ Using Lemma C.6 and Assumption 1, there existsκ∈ (0,1), such that ∥(JW )−1∥∞ ≤ 1 µ(1−κ) .(66) We can solve for the residualr i as: ri =F(θ i,γ i) +J F (θi,γ i)si =  I−J F (θi,γ i)J ′ F (θi,γ i)−1 F(θ i,γ i). (67) The Inexact Newton method requires the residual to satisfy ∥ri∥ ≤η i∥F(θ i,γ i)∥for some forcing sequence{η i}. From (67), (66) and Assumption 2, 3, we have that ηi =∥I−J F (θi,γ i)J ′ F (θi,γ i)−1∥∞ ≤max m X n̸=m 1 |Dn(θi)| X k∈N grad m ∥∇θk,i Fm(θi, γm,i)∥∞ · ∥(JW (θi,γ i)−1)kn∥∞ · ∥∇θn Dn(θi)∥∞ ≤max m CDCint Dmin X k∈N grad m  X n̸=m ∥(JW (θi,γ i)−1)kn∥∞   ≤ KC DCint µDmin(1−κ) = CDCint Dmin(1/K−H int) . (68) Thus, there existsη max = CDCint Dmin(1/K−Hint) <1such that ηi ≤η max. Therefore, under the stated assumptions, there exists a neighborhoodU ′ ⊆ U(γ ∗)such that ifγ 0 ∈ U ′, the sequence {γi}converges toγ ∗. The outer-loop iteration in Algorithm 2 converges to NE of gameGlinearly. APPENDIXF ASYNCHRONOUS FRACTIONAL MULTI-AGENT DRL NETWORKS As shown in Fig. 7, for each mobile device, our algorithm contains R-D3QN and R-PPO networks for discrete and continuous action space as well as interactions between agents and history information. A. R-D3QN Module D3QN is a modified version of deep Q-learning [73] equipped with double DQN technique with target Q to overcome overestimation [74] and dueling DQN technique which separately estimates value function and advantage function [75]. And our R-D3QN structure is inspired by DRQN [76] which allows networks to retain context and memory from history events and environment states. The key idea is to learn a mapping from states in state spaceS O to the Q-value of actions in action spaceA O. When the policy is learned and updated to the mobile device, it can selective offloading actions with the maximum Q-value to maximize the expected long-term reward. Apart from traditional deep Q-learning, it has a target Q-function network to compute the expected long-term reward based on the optimal action chosen with the traditional Q-function network to solve the overestimation problem. What’s more, both the Q-function networks contain the advantage layer and value layer, which are used to estimate the value of the state and the relative advantage of the action. What’s more, we take advantage of a GRU module to provide history information of other agents’ decisions and environment states. B. R-PPO Module R-PPO mainly includes two networks: policy network and value network. Policy network is responsible for producing actions based on networks. It outputs mean and standard deviation vectors for continuous action and probability distribution for discrete network. The value network computes the advantage values and estimates the expected return of the current state. Similar to R-D3QN network, it has an additional GRU module to memorize the state-action pairs from history and other agents to enhance the information contained by the state based on which the value network estimates the state value. APPENDIXG EXPERIMENTALSETUP ANDHYPERPARAMETERS To ensure the reproducibility of our reported results, this appendix provides a comprehensive list of the environment settings, communication model parameters, algorithmic hyperparameters, and training details used in our simulations. A. Environment and Task Parameters The default parameters for the Mobile Edge Computing (MEC) environment and the computational tasks are detailed in Table II. These settings were used for all experiments unless explicitly varied, as noted in the main text.

[page 20]
20 Fig. 7. Illustration on the proposed fractional multi-agent DRL framework of D3QN and PPO module with RNN networks including reward module with proposed fractional scheme and GRU module with asynchronous trajectory collection mechanism. TABLE II DEFAULTENVIRONMENT ANDTASKPARAMETERSETTINGS Parameter Value Number of mobile devices 20 Number of edge nodes 2 Capacity of mobile devices 2.5 GHz Capacity of edge nodes 41.8 GHz Task size 30 Mbits Task density 0.297 gigacycles per Mbits Drop coefficient ( ¯Y) 1.5 B. Communication Model Parameters The general parameters for the wireless communication model, as described in Equation (1), are listed below. •Transmit power (p m): 20 dBm •Background noise power (η 0): -114 dBm •Path loss exponent (α): 3 For the specific experiment involving time-varying channels (Figure 6), the parameters were set according to Table III. TABLE III CHANNELPARAMETERSETTINGS FORTIME-VARYINGEXPERIMENTS (FIG. 6) Parameter Value Number of mobile devices 10 Transmit power 20 dBm Background noise power -114 dBm Path loss exponent 3 C. Algorithmic Hyperparameters for A.F . MADRL The performance of our proposed Asynchronous Fractional Multi-Agent DRL (A.F. MADRL) algorithm depends on a set of key hyperparameters. Table IV provides the specific values used for our implementation, which are essential for replicating our learning-based results. TABLE IV HYPERPARAMETERS FOR THEA.F. MADRL ALGORITHM Category Hyperparameter Value General RL Discount Factor (δ) 0.99Replay Buffer Size 100,000Batch Size 64Target Network Update Rate (τ) 0.005 (soft update) R-D3QN (Offloading)Learning Rate 1e-4 (Adam Optimizer)ϵ-Greedy Schedule Linear decay from 1.0 to 0.05 over 500 episodes R-PPO (Updating)Actor Learning Rate 3e-4 (Adam Optimizer)Critic Learning Rate 1e-3 (Adam Optimizer)PPO Clipping Parameter (ϵ) 0.2Entropy Coefficient 0.01 Network ArchitectureGRU Hidden Units 128Fully Connected Layers (Post-GRU) Two layers with [256, 128] units and ReLU activation Fractional ModuleγUpdate Frequency Every 50 episodes D. Training Details All algorithms were implemented using PyTorch. The training was conducted on a server equipped with an AMD EPYC 7763 CPU and an NVIDIA RTX 4090 GPU. To ensure the stability and reliability of our results, we used fixed random seeds for network initialization and environment generation. Each experiment was run for 1000 episodes (or 1500 if convergence was slower), and the final reported results are the average of five independent runs, with the shaded areas in plots representing the standard deviation across these runs.
