[page 1]
arXiv:2411.07086v1 [cs.AI] 11 Nov 2024 To Train or Not to Train: Balancing Efficiency and Training Cost in Deep Reinforcement Learning for Mobile Edge Computing Maddalena Boscaro, Federico Mason, Federico Chiariotti, A ndrea Zanella Department of Information Engineering, University of Pado va, Via G. Gradenigo 6/B, 35131, Padua, Italy Emails: {boscaromad, masonfed, chiariot }@dei.unipd.it, andrea.zanella@unipd.it Abstract—Artificial Intelligence (AI) is a key component of 6G networks, as it enables communication and computing servic es to adapt to end users’ requirements and demand patterns. The management of Mobile Edge Computing (MEC) is a meaningful example of AI application: computational resources availa ble at the network edge need to be carefully allocated to users, who se jobs may have different priorities and latency requirement s. The research community has developed several AI algorithms to perform this resource allocation, but it has neglected a k ey aspect: learning is itself a computationally demanding tas k, and considering free training results in idealized conditi ons and performance in simulations. In this work, we consider a more realistic case in which the cost of learning is specifically a ccounted for , presenting a new algorithm to dynamically select when to train the Deep Reinforcement Learning (DRL) agent that allocates resources. Our method is highly general, as it can be directly applied to any scenario involving a training overh ead, and it can approach the same performance as an ideal learning agent even under realistic training conditions. Index Terms —Mobile Edge Computing, Deep Reinforcement Learning, Cost of Learning, Continual Learning I. I NTRODUCTION This paper has been submitted to IEEE International Confere nce on Communications 2025. The 6G paradigm will revolutionize mobile networks by integrating communication and computing in a holistic fash ion, offering specialized services that constantly adapt t o the specific needs of end users [1]. This extreme customization o f network applications will be allowed by the wide diffusion o f Artificial Intelligence (AI), which will become a core compo nent of network management [2]. The AI native nature of 6G will therefore transform networks into proactive entities that respond to user requests while pursuing various optimizati on goals, far beyond human capabilities. A crucial use case of AI in 6G is the orchestration of computational jobs in Mobile Edge Computing (MEC) [3]. The offloading of tasks to MEC-capable Base Stations (BSs) will support autonomous vehicles, holographic communication, and many other breakthrough services, which require not only a huge bandwidth for data transmission, but also computationally intensive operations with strict timing d eadlines [4]. The high system load that these tasks will impose This work was partially supported by the European Union unde r the Italian National Recovery and Resilience Plan (NRRP) partnership o n “Telecommunications of the Future” (PE00000001 - program “RESTART”). F. Chiariotti’s activities are funded by NRRP “Y oung Researchers” gr ant REDIAL (SoE0000009). makes AI algorithms necessary for automatically handling the allocation of computational resources, prioritizing c ritical applications and adapting to network dynamics without huma n intervention [5]. Over the past decade, the benefits of AI for MEC optimization have been highlighted in many circumstances [6], [7]. I n particular, the Deep Reinforcement Learning (DRL) paradig m can find decision-making strategies to allocate computatio nal resources to the pending jobs, outperforming traditional h euristic approaches like Shortest Job First (SJF) [8], which do no t take into account the specific demand patterns of each MEC server. Traditional DRL frameworks assume that the target scenario is stationary in time, which enables the use of a pre existing dataset for training and does not require modifyin g the learning model after its deployment. This assumption is ill-suited to the expected requirements for 6G networks, which make extreme flexibility one of the key points of their operation [9]. This then requires adopting a Continua l Learning (CL) approach, so that the DRL agents constantly acquire new information and retrain when the environment is subject to significant changes [10]. However, updating learning agents with new information makes it necessary to devote resources to train the agents themselves. As learning is a computationally intensive ope ration, the optimization of CL systems can have a strong impact on the performance of networks and computing facilities. In traditional DRL problems, the agent is considered as being outside the environment: its training and decision-making are assumed to be instantaneous, with no impact on the environment evolution. However, this assumption becomes unrealis tic in CL systems, in which DRL training is both computationally expensive, requiring the computation of gradients over bat ches of experience samples, and online. In this manuscript, we consider the problem of allocating computational jobs in a MEC server via a DRL agent. Following our previous work [11], we define the cost of learning as the overhead incurred by the allocation of training jobs to improve the agent policy. Since the ultimate goal of the agent is to maximize the MEC efficiency and serve as many users as possible within their deadlines, this poses a dilemma: should we use resources to train, and improve the agent accuracy in the long term, or maximize the number of resources assigned to the users, i.e., the immediate reward ?

[page 2]
This trade-off represents a unique challenge that is often neglected in the DRL literature. One potential solution is to implement a new learning agent with the goal of allocating MEC resources between regular an d training jobs. However, this would require additional reso urces to train the new agent, shifting the problem to the decision on when to train this meta-agent. Another possibility is to include the decision directly in the action space of the agen t. In this scenario, the agent would need to learn not only how to allocate resources for generic incoming jobs but also for its own training jobs, identifying states in which learning is more beneficial. However, as the policy improves over time, the priority of the learning decreases and the reward associ ated with the policy changes. The result leads to a non-stationar y environment, which potentially prevents the agent’s polic y from converging to the optimal solution. In this work, we manage user and training resources separately, defining two heuristic strategies to decide when to allocate training jobs. The first is a periodic strategy that allocates training jobs according to a regular time frame. T he latter is an adaptive strategy that aims to estimate the most convenient states to allocate MEC resources for the trainin g. Unlike our previous work [11], which relied on strategies th at needed to be designed ad hoc for a specific application, these strategies are entirely general and are not limited to speci fic features of the MEC problem, but rather apply to any DRL setting in which cost of learning is an active concern. Our major contributions are the following: • we implement a DRL agent to schedule job requests in a MEC environment with two classes of user requests with different priorities; • we compare the DRL agent against a SJF benchmark in an online training settings, highlight the impact of the cost of learning over the system performance; • we design a novel heuristic algorithm, named Adaptive Training Strategy (A TS), to dynamically optimize the training process according to the estimated cost of learning in each possible state of the MEC server; • we compare the proposed heuristic against a benchmark that does not consider the MEC state to decide when to take new training actions. Aside from obtaining a significant performance advantage with respect to both naive CL strategies and non-data-drive n solutions, the proposed A TS algorithm is also fully general : unlike our previous work [11], which was an ad hoc heuristic that considered specific features of the scenario, A TS uses t he reward estimates made by the DRL agent itself to decide when and whether to train. This means that it can be applied direct ly to other cost of learning problems, including MEC systems with different statistics. II. S YSTEM MODEL We consider a MEC server connected to a cellular BS and equipped with various types of computational resources tha t we consider as a unified pool with capacity C. We assume that the system operates with discrete time slots τ and that a MEC scheduler allocates the available resources at the beginni ng of each slot. We also assume that the BS area covers Nuser users, each of which generates computing jobs according to a Bernoulli process Xn ∼ B (p). We define p = ρ/(µNuser), where ρ, named average load , is the average fraction of the cluster capacity C requested by the users, and µ is the average number of resources each job requires. Each job j requires a certain amount of resources cj and a fixed execution time ej, which must be allocated when it is scheduled. It also has a fixed deadline Tj, i.e., the maximum time that the job can wait before execution without violatin g the user Quality of Service (QoS) requirements. Thus, if a job request is not satisfied before the deadline expires, it i s discarded by the MEC server. We assume that, at the beginning of each slot, the MEC scheduler can allocate resources to a single new job. Once MEC resources are assigned to a job, they remain allocated to it until its completion. We can then formulate the job scheduling problem as an Markov Decision Process (MDP), following the framework proposed in [12]. According to this model, the MEC server is provided with a finite buffer that can contain up to L jobs. If a new job arrives when the buffer is already full, it is discard ed by the system and marked as failed. The state of each job in the buffer is encoded by a tuple ⟨ej, cj, wj, Tj⟩, where wj is the time that job j has already spent in the buffer. Hence, the buffer state can be represented by a 4 × L matrix B. The full state of the MEC server depend on both the buffer conditions and the already allocated computational resour ces: we can represent the reserved resources for the next M slots as a vector g ∈ { 0, 1, . . . , C}M , where g(m) indicates the amount of allocated resources at slot m. At the end of each time step, we set gt+1(m) = gt(m+1) ∀m ∈ { 1, . . . , M}, and gt+1(M ) = 0 . This notation is a more compact representation of the binary matrix defined in [12]. The time evolution of the buffer is rather simple: while ej, cj, and Tj remain constant for each job in the buffer, wj is incremented by 1 at each time slot, and the job is discarded if wj > T j. If the MEC scheduler allocates a job on the server, it is removed from th e buffer and marked as successfully executed. At the beginning of each slot, the agent observes the system state s = ⟨B, g⟩ ∈ S and chooses an action a ∈ A . The action space is defined as A = {0, 2, ..., B − 1} ∪ { ∅}, where B is the buffer capacity, a = i indicates scheduling job in position i, while a = ∅, i.e., the void action , indicates that no job is scheduled in the current time slot. Therefore, in each time unit, the learning agent can choose from B + 1 possible actions. We observe that some actions might be invalid, i.e. , the chosen position in the buffer may be empty, or the job may require the allocation of resources that are already bus y. Invalid actions are equivalent to the void action, while val id actions make jobs be immediately assigned to MEC resources. We now introduce a delay penalty function φ(w, T ), which describes the satisfaction level of a job with a deadline T

[page 3]
entering service after waiting w slots in the buffer: φ(w, T ) =      1, if w < T 2 ; 2 ( 1 − w T ) , if T 2 ≤ w < T ; 0, if w ≥ T. (1) Hence, jobs are fully satisfied if they are served within T 2 , after which the utility decreases linearly with delay until the deadline is reached. Additionally, we introduce functi on D(s, a), which counts the number of jobs in the buffer whose deadline expires if the scheduler chooses action a in state s: D(s, a) = B∑ j=1 I(wj + 1 > T j)I(cj > 0)I(j ̸= a), (2) where I(·) is the indicator function, whose value is 1 if the condition in the argument is true and 0 otherwise. We define the reward associated to state s and action a as r(s, a) = { eaφ(wa, Ta) − σD(s, a), if a is valid; − σD(s, a), otherwise; (3) where σ ∈ R+ is a tuning parameter. Scheduling a job right before its deadline does not provide a positive reward, as φ(Tj, Tj) = 0 , but still prevents the job from being discarded, thus avoiding increasing the penalty term. The reward given to a job is also weighted by its duration, to consider the fact that longer jobs occupy the MEC server for longer. In this work, we address the scheduling problem by a DRL approach, training a learning agent to maximize the long-te rm reward by associating each state s ∈ S with the optimal action a∗ ∈ A . In particular, we consider the Double Deep Q-Network (D-DQN) algorithm [13], which is an extension of traditional Q-learning, using two distinct neural netwo rks, named policy and target networks. While the policy network Q(·) is used to select actions, the target network ˆQ(·) is used to estimate their associated Q values. Our implementation a lso exploits Prioritized Experience Replay (PER), which allow s the DRL algorithm to process more frequently the experience associated with higher reward during the training phase. We set the PER weight for each sample i as αi = exp ( ri − max j∈E rj ) , (4) where E is the set containing the agent’s past experience. Finally, we used ε-greedy exploration, changing the value of ε according to a reverse sigmoid function scaled to match the number of episodes in the training. III. C OST OF LEARNING FRAMEWORK In real scenarios, MEC scheduling policies need to continuously adapt to time-varying demand patterns and user requirements. In the case of learning-based optimization, as the one we consider, this requires to adopt a CL approach in which the MEC scheduler is trained in real time. Hence, we must take into account the computing overhead due to the cost of learning, i.e., the need to allocate part of the MEC resources to the training jobs used for the agent optimization. Training job s s ∗ User resources Training res. Fig. 1: Insertion of a training job in the resource grid. In the following, we assume that the D-DQN algorithm can improve the DRL agent by processing B batches of experience samples only when a training job is allocated by a metascheduler. This latter is separated from the agent itself to avoid the convergence issues we discussed in the introducti on. We then consider a training job to require ctr resources for a single time slot, and present two heuristics that are able to dynamically decide when to allocate training jobs withou t harming the performance of the MEC system. A. Periodic Training Strategy (PTS) The first heuristic we propose is named Periodic Training Strategy (PTS) and schedules training jobs at regular inter vals, referred to as training periods and denoted as Tℓ. At the start of each training period, a training job is immediately sched uled in the cluster, regardless of the system state. Determining the optimal Tℓ is then a key issue: lower values accelerate the training process, but also increase the load on the system, making the agent’s task more difficult and taking computing resources away from the users. On the other hand, if Tℓ is too high, the learning algorithm converges too slowly, usin g a suboptimal policy for extended periods. B. Adaptive Training Strategy (ATS) The major limit of PTS is that it operates independently of the current conditions of the MEC server. To address this limitation, we design Adaptive Training Strategy (A TS), which aims at identifying when to allocate training resources. Th e A TS algorithm leverages the current estimates of the Q-valu es to determine which states are the best for training, enablin g the system to make more informed decisions. Indeed, states with higher Q-values are, by definition, more favorable to th e agent: we can reasonably expect states with a higher expecte d long-term reward to be more resilient to the disruption caus ed by reserving resources to the training. At the beginning of each slot, A TS simulates the effects of inserting a training job into the server, which would move th e system from state s to state s∗ (also called training state ), as shown in Fig. 1. This can be simply done by marking ctr resources as occupied at the earliest possible moment. Afterwards, A TS compares the Q-values for both the current and training state, getting ψ(s) = max a Q(s∗ , a) + β ( max a Q(s∗ , a) − max a Q(s, a) ) , (5) where β ∈ R+ is a parameter that balances the contributions of the two equation terms. The first term represents the maximum

[page 4]
Q-value over all possible actions for the training state s∗ , reflecting the potential reward of taking the optimal action in that state. The second term measures the difference between the maximum Q-value of state s∗ and state s. This difference intuitively quantifies the penalty (or cost) on the expected reward when a greedy action is performed in state s∗ . In essence, ψ(s) measures the effect of inserting a training job on the expected long-term return, i.e., the cost of learning . During the training process, A TS records the value of ψ for each state in a dedicated buffer Ψ. Once Ψ is full, we compare the new value of ψ with the values in the buffer. If ψ is over the 99th percentile, meaning the present state is more favorable for training than 99% of recent states, a training job is allocated for the current time slot, and the network is tra ined using D-DQN algorithm. Naturally, such a threshold should b e tuned depending on the specific features of the problem as in different learning environments we may desire more or less intensive training phases. On the other hand, no architectu ral changes to the A TS algorithm are needed. During the early stages of the learning process, the Qvalues may not be able to provide an accurate estimate of the state quality, which makes A TS’s decisions inaccurate. To address this, we implement a method to determine when it is appropriate to use A TS to decide whenever to allocate traini ng jobs. Practically, during training, we record not only the v alue of ψ, but also the Time Difference (TD) error δ and a newly defined measure φ. The values of δ and φ are used together to determine the moment in which the ψ statistics become reliable. In the case of D-DQN, the value of δ at time t is δt(s, a, s′) = r(s, a) +γ ˆQt(s′, arg max a′ Qt(s′, a′)) − Qt(s, a), (6) where ˆQt is the target Q-network at time t, and s′ is the agent observation at the subsequent slot. When the value of the TD error becomes smaller than the difference φ(s) between the maximum Q-value for training state s∗ and the average Qvalue across all possible actions for state s, the Q-values are sufficiently reliable to use A TS: δt(s, a, s′) ≤ φ(s) = max a Qt(s∗ , a) − Ea[Qt(s, a)]. (7) In contrast, if the TD error exceeds φ(s), the Q-values may be less reliable or more uncertain. In such cases, it is advisab le to go back to PTS. Indeed, the periodic alternative, not rely ing on Q-value estimates, can avoid the potential risks associa ted with inaccuracies in Q-value estimates. IV. S IMULATION SETTINGS AND RESULTS In this section, we discuss the results of the simulations we performed to evaluate the proposed cost of learning framewo rk in the MEC system described in Sec. II. We compare the proposed PTS and A TS approaches in both stationary and dynamic environments. We also consider two benchmarks, namely the classical SJF algorithm [14], which is commonly used as a standard approach for resource allocation, and an ideal DRL solution with no cost of learning, which provides an upper bound for DRL performance in realistic settings. Parameter Symbol V alue Average load ρ 0.1 − 0.3 Size of the job buffer L 10 Server computational capacity C 20 Allocation horizon M 20 Maximum waiting time Tshort, Tlong 4, 8 User number Nuser 1000 Number of training episodes Ntrain 1000, 1500 Number of testing episodes Ntest 100 Number of slots per episode Nslot 1000 Discount factor γ 0.95 Batch size b 16 Number of batches per training job B 10 Weight soft update parameter τ 0.005 Learning rate of Adam optimizer α 10−3 A TS tuning parameter β 0.4 TABLE I: Parameters of the system In our simulations, we consider a MEC server with C = 20 computing resources, serving users that have two kinds of jo bs, that we call short and long. Short jobs have an execution time eshort ∼ U ( {C 20 , . . . , 3C 20 } ), while long jobs have an execution time elong ∼ U ( {2 5 C, . . . , 3 5 C } ). The computational requirement c is the same for both classes, c ∼ U ( {C 4 , . . . , C 2 } ). Jobs are generated independently at each user, with a probabilit y pshort = 0.2 of being short. The MEC load is then ρ = 3 8 Nuserp ( 1 2 − 2pshort 5 ) , (8) where N and p are the number of users and the Bernoulli probability associated to a single user, as defined in Sec. II . Finally, each training job takes up all the MEC resources when entering the server, i.e., ctr = C. We use the Adam optimizer [15] to update the Q-networks’ parameters, consideri ng a maximum learning rate of α = 10 − 3. Table I summarizes the main parameters of our system, considering both the definiti on of the environment and the learning algorithm. A. Stationary scenario Firstly, we consider a stationary MEC scenario, where the average load is fixed and equal to ρ = 0 .3. We simulate the resource allocation system over Ntrain = 1000 episodes, each consisting of Nslot = 1000 time slots. When using learning-based methods, we employ the ε-greedy strategy with exponential decay for the first 350 episodes and then maintain a constant value ε = 0.1 for the remaining episodes. We first study the effect of the length of the training period using PTS, experimenting with different values to identify the most effective configuration. Fig. 2 shows the cumulative average reward, i.e., the cumulative sum of the rewards accumulated in the training phase.We note that long er training period values lead to a much better performance dur ing the training, quickly overcoming the initial disadvant age with respect to SJF. As training jobs require all the MEC server’s resources for a single time slot, the additional lo ad is ρℓ = T − 1 ℓ , and setting a shorter training period results in a much higher overhead for the system. However, we can note

[page 5]
0 200 400 600 800 1 ,000 − 0.3 − 0.2 − 0.1 0 0.1 Episode Cumulative reward SJF Tℓ = 10 Tℓ = 20 Tℓ = 50 Tℓ = 200 Tℓ = 400 Fig. 2: Cumulative reward during the training as a function o f the training period Tℓ in the static scenario. SJF Tℓ = 10 Tℓ = 20 Tℓ = 50 Tℓ = 200 Tℓ = 400 0 0.1 0.2 0.3 Scheme Expected reward Fig. 3: Expected reward after convergence as a function of th e training period Tℓ in the static scenario. that extremely long periods such as Tℓ = 400 also lead to a slower convergence: in this cumulative plot, convergence is achieved when the reward trend becomes linear. We can also explicitly evaluate performance after convergence, considering Ntest = 100 episodes in which the agent exploits the learned policy without further learning. In an ideal scenario, where the cost of learning has no impact on the system, training as often as possible is highly beneficia l. On the other hand, Fig. 3 shows that, while increasing the frequency of training is beneficial up to a point, allowing th e agent to learn a better policy, setting Tℓ = 10 or Tℓ = 20 leads to a significant decrease in performance. Initially, l ess frequent training is more convenient in terms of rewards, as the MEC scheduler can allocate more resources to users even with unrefined strategies, as the left side of Fig. 2 shows. However, in the long run, less frequent training is inefficie nt because a suboptimal policy continues to be applied. The optimal working point depends on the specific characteristi c of the environment to be optimized and, thus, Tℓ must be tuned specifically for each application and scenario. This balance can then be struck by using the A TS policy, which can almost approach the performance of ideal DRL method, as Fig. 4 shows. A TS also converges faster than PTS: while all DRL schemes are initially at a disadvantage with respect to SJF, which does not need to insert training jobs in the server, PTS requires more than 400 episodes to overcome the performance deficit. Instead, A TS outperforms SJF approximately 50 episodes earlier than PTS, with only a short delay with respect to the ideal training case. This dua l advantage, i.e., faster convergence and higher performanc e, 0 200 400 600 800 1 ,000 − 0.2 − 0.1 0 0.1 Episode Cumulative reward SJF PTS A TS Ideal Fig. 4: Cumulative reward during the training for all polici es in the static scenario. SJF PTS A TS Ideal 0 0.1 0.2 0.3 Scheme Expected reward Fig. 5: Expected reward after convergence for all the polici es in the static scenario. shows that an intelligent strategy can significantly mitiga te the cost of learning problem. We remark that, unlike our previous work on this field, A TS does not need application-specific tuning. This is because t he allocation of training jobs affects the state of the system a nd does not modify the agent’s action space, allowing the direc t use of Q-value estimates to tune the training process. In oth er words, A TS can figure out the states in which inserting a train ing job would lead to excessive performance degradation by directly looking at Q-values. This key feature makes A TS an environment-agnostic method that can be readily generaliz ed to other scenarios affected by the cost of learning. B. Dynamic scenario As we discussed in Sec. III, our framework is particularly suited to non-stationary environment, where the learning a gent has to adapt dynamically following a CL approach. We then consider a a dynamic version of the MEC scenario, where the average load increases linearly from 0.1 to 0.3 over the course of Ntrain = 1500 episodes. This emulates a scenario in which the distribution of job requests changes with the number or type of users connected to the BS. In this case, the policy obtained by the ideal DRL approach is pre-trained considering a fixed load of ρ = 0 .1 and then implemented in the dynamic environment without furthe r training. Due to its lack of adaptation, we refer to this appr oach as the fixed strategy . In contrast, the policies obtained by the PTS and A TS approaches continue to interact with the environment, adapting to variations in the value of ρ and maintaining a fixed exploration rate ε = 0.1.

[page 6]
0 200 400 600 800 1 ,000 1 ,200 1 ,400 0 0.1 0.2 Episode Reward gap PTS A TS Fixed Fig. 6: Reward gap between SJF and the DRL policies during training in the dynamic scenario. SJF PTS A TS Fixed 0 0.1 0.2 0.3 Scheme Expected reward Fig. 7: Expected reward after convergence for all the polici es in the dynamic scenario. Fig. 6 shows the relative advantage of the three policies over SJF: initially, the fixed strategy outperforms PTS and A TS, as they suffer from the overhead due to insertion of training jobs in the MEC server. However, the gain over SJF is relatively small, as setting ρ = 0 .1 makes the system easy to optimize. The performance gap decreases over time, as the use of a continual learning approach becomes more important , and A TS and PTS start outperforming the fixed strategy after ≈ 400 episodes. We conducted a final test of Ntest = 100 episodes to evaluate the performance of all the strategies with ρ = 0 .3, after the training phase is over. Fig. 7 shows that A TS reaches a better strategy than PTS, and both schemes significantly outperform the fixed strategy. The higher performance of PTS and A TS over the benchmarks attests to the need to adopt CL approaches, even if the improvement of the agent policy involves a cost for the MEC server. These results denote how explicitly considering the cost of learning is fundamental to obtain effective learning strategies in scenarios where tr aining is in direct competition for resources with the users. V. C ONCLUSION AND FUTURE WORK In this work, we proposed a framework to handle the cost of learning in DRL-based resource allocation problems. We considered a MEC system, and designed a framework to mitigate the significant but often overlooked computing ove rhead associated with learning-based optimization strateg ies. Unlike traditional DRL solutions, our framework considers that the training of learning agents has a direct impact on the system that these agents aim to optimize. Hence, we proposed an adaptive strategy that identifies the best momen ts to carry out training, exploiting information derived from the learning process itself. Our strategy outperforms traditi onal DRL approaches and can be readily generalized to other scenarios where the training impact is a critical factor, su ch as edge network optimization. Future extension of this work will involve the investigatio n of the relation between training and exploration decisions , since training effectiveness is unavoidably dependent on t he efficiency of the environment exploration. Besides, we plan to validate our framework and the proposed training strategy i n more scenarios, considering data from real applications. REFERENCES [1] Y . Zuo, J. Guo, N. Gao, Y . Zhu, S. Jin, and X. Li, “A survey of blockchain and artificial intelligence for 6G wireless comm unications,” IEEE Communications Surveys & Tutorials , 2023. [2] L. Jiao, Y . Shao, L. Sun, F. Liu, S. Y ang, W. Ma, L. Li, X. Liu , B. Hou, X. Zhang, R. Shang, Y . Li, S. Wang, X. Tang, and Y . Guo, “Advanc ed deep learning models for 6G: Overview, opportunities, and c hallenges,” IEEE Access , vol. 12, pp. 133 245–133 314, 2024. [3] C. Feng, P . Han, X. Zhang, B. Y ang, Y . Liu, and L. Guo, “Comp utation offloading in mobile edge computing networks: A survey,” Journal of Network and Computer Applications , vol. 202, p. 103366, 2022. [4] V . K. Quy, A. Chehri, N. M. Quy, N. D. Han, and N. T. Ban, “Inn ovative trends in the 6G era: A comprehensive survey of archit ecture, applications, technologies, and challenges,” IEEE Access , vol. 11, pp. 39 824–39 844, 2023. [5] L. Ma, N. Cheng, C. Zhou, X. Wang, N. Lu, N. Zhang, K. Alduba ikhy, and A. Alqasir, “Dynamic neural network-based resource man agement for mobile edge computing in 6G networks,” IEEE Transactions on Cognitive Communications and Networking , vol. 10, no. 3, pp. 953– 967, 2024. [6] S. Wang, M. Chen, X. Liu, C. Yin, S. Cui, and H. V . Poor, “A machine learning approach for task and resource allocation in mobileedge computing-based networks,” IEEE Internet of Things Journal , vol. 8, no. 3, pp. 1358–1372, 2020. [7] H. Zhou, K. Jiang, X. Liu, X. Li, and V . C. Leung, “Deep rein forcement learning for energy-efficient computation offloading in mob ile-edge computing,” IEEE Internet of Things Journal , vol. 9, no. 2, pp. 1517– 1530, 2021. [8] J. Ru and J. Keung, “An empirical investigation on the sim ulation of priority and shortest-job-first scheduling for cloud-ba sed software systems,” in 22nd Australian Software Engineering Conference . IEEE, 2013, pp. 78–87. [9] M. Bagaa, D. L. C. Dutra, T. Taleb, and H. Flinck, “Toward e nabling network slice mobility to support 6G system,” IEEE Transactions on Wireless Communications, vol. 21, no. 12, pp. 10 130–10 144, 2022. [10] L. Wang, X. Zhang, H. Su, and J. Zhu, “A comprehensive sur vey of continual learning: theory, method and application,” IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence , vol. 46, no. 8, pp. 5362– 5383, 2024. [11] S. Lahmer, F. Mason, F. Chiariotti, and A. Zanella, “Fas t context adaptation in cost-aware continual learning,” IEEE Transactions on Machine Learning in Communications and Networking , vol. 2, pp. 479– 494, 2024. [12] H. Mao, M. Alizadeh, I. Menache, and S. Kandula, “Resour ce management with deep reinforcement learning,” in ACM 15th W orkshop on Hot Topics in Networks (HotNets) , 2016, pp. 50––56. [13] H. V an Hasselt, A. Guez, and D. Silver, “Deep reinforcem ent learning with double Q-learning,” in Conference on Artificial Intelligence, vol. 30, no. 1. AAAI, 2016. [14] J. L. Bruno, “Sequencing jobs with stochastic task stru ctures on a single machine,” Journal of the ACM , vol. 23, no. 4, pp. 655–664, 1976. [15] Z. Zhang, “Improved ADAM optimizer for deep neural netw orks,” in 26th International Symposium on Quality of Service (IWQoS) . IEEE/ACM, 2018.
