[page 1]
PQBFL: A Post-Quantum Blockchain-based Protocol for Federated Learning Hadi Gharavi*, Jorge Granjal, Edmundo Monteiro University of Coimbra, Centre for Informatics and Systems of the University of Coimbra, Department of Informatics Engineering, Portugal ARTICLE INFO Keywords: Post-Quantum Cryptography, Federated Learning, Blockchain, Protocol, Security and Privacy ABSTRACT One of the goals of Federated Learning (FL) is to collaboratively train a global model using local models from remote participants. However, the FL process is susceptible to various security challenges, including interception and tampering models, information leakage through shared gradients, and privacy breaches that expose participant identities or data, particularly in sensitive domains such as medical environments. Furthermore, the advent of quantum computing poses a critical threat to existing cryptographic protocols through the Shor and Grover algorithms, causing security concerns in the communication of FL systems. To address these challenges, we propose a Post-Quantum Blockchain-basedprotocolforFederatedLearning(PQBFL)thatutilizespost-quantumcryptographic (PQC) algorithms and blockchain to enhance model security and participant identity privacy in FL systems. It employs a hybrid communication strategy that combines off-chain and on-chain channelstooptimizecostefficiency,improvesecurity,andpreserveparticipantprivacywhileensuring accountability for reputation-based authentication in FL systems. The PQBFL specifically addresses the security requirement for the iterative nature of FL, which is a less notable point in the literature. Hence, it leverages ratcheting mechanisms to provide forward secrecy and post-compromise security during all the rounds of the learning process. In conclusion, PQBFL provides a secure and resilient solution for federated learning that is well-suited to the quantum computing era. 1. Introduction The emergence of quantum computing in the near future poses a significant threat to conventional cryptographic standards, putting secure communication and sensitive data at risk. Shor (Shor, 1994) and Grover (Grover, 1996) are quantum-based algorithms that can easily compromise current cryptography algorithms. Shor’s algorithm efficiently finds prime factors of large numbers, breaking RSA encryption, whereas Grover’s algorithm speeds up brute-force attacksonsymmetric-keycryptography,reducingtheirsecurity. Although quantum computers are currently not powerfulenoughtobeconsideredaseriousthreat,therealconcern is the “Harvest Now, Decrypt Later" (HNDL) attack, in which adversaries collect encrypted data with the intention of decrypting it once quantum computing becomes sufficiently powerful. Therefore, it is necessary to develop postquantum cryptographic (PQC) protocols for various applications that can withstand quantum-fueled attacks (Gharavi et al., 2024). In the context of Federated Learning (FL), in which multiple participants collaboratively train a global model on an aggregator server by sending their local models, the confidentiality, integrity, and authenticity of the model data are crucial to the duration of the learning process. It is also possible that the model data value does not decrease over time, making the HNDL attack reasonable for FL systems. Furthermore, there are additional concerns about privacy, availability, and threats related to machine learning, such ∗Corresponding author at CISUC, Department of Informatics Engineering, University of Coimbra, Portugal E-mail addresses: hgharavi@dei.uc.pt (H. Gharavi), jgranjal@dei.uc.pt (J. Granjal), edmundo@dei.uc.pt (E. Monteiro). ( ) as model or data poisoning attacks. These attacks affect the accuracyofthefinalaggregatedmodelbyinjectingfalsedata or manipulating local models. Therefore, federated learning schemes use blockchains as security, transparency, distribution, and incentive aid (Qammar et al., 2023; Rehman et al., 2020). The blockchain can serve as an immutable record for all contributions in the training model, enabling theeasyidentificationandpreventionofmaliciousactivities that increase the resilience of FL systems to such attacks. Blockchaincanalsocontributetothecollectivetrainingprocess without revealing a participant’s identity. This allows participants to engage in the process through pseudonyms, whereas contributions can be traced back to accountability. Thefuture-lookingsecurityanduserprivacy-preserving requirements in FL motivated us to present a Post-Quantum Blockchain-basedprotocolforFederatedLearning(PQBFL). The PQBFL protocol considers the critical needs of an FL framework to offer a post-quantum security solution with advancementsinquantumcomputing.Moreover,leveraging blockchain characteristics provides mechanisms for decentralization, privacy preservation, and reputation management of FL projects. Therefore, our main contributions to the PQBFL are summarized as follows. 1. The PQBFL provides a hybrid solution using conventional and post-quantum cryptographic primitives from the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) (FIPS203, 2023) that resist the potential threats in FL systems. We utilized ratcheting mechanisms for each training round that provide forward secrecy and post-compromise security for the update models. arXiv:2502.14464v1 [cs.CR] 20 Feb 2025

[page 2]
2 2. We also propose a hybrid communication approach that combines blockchain transactions and network communication (off-chain and on-chain channels) for transfer models, which enhances security layers and overcomes on-chain costs. 3. PQBFL uses blockchain in two aspects: first, as a key establishment facilitator and second, as a decentralized ledger to record the transactions of participants and servers in the FL system. Moreover, we illustrate the capability of blockchain in authentication based on a reputation mechanism and its effectiveness in preserving the privacy of participants in FL systems. Theremainderofthispaperisorganizedasfollows.Related works are described in Section 2. In Section 3, we provide preliminaryconcepts,includingpost-quantumcryptography primitivesandthestructureofthefederatedlearningframeworks. Section 4 first presents the security and privacy requirementsandthendescribesthePQBFLprotocolindetail. In Section 5, we present the security analysis and discuss the security capabilities of the proposed scheme. Section 6 evaluates the proposed protocol and performs experiments on computation and communication costs. Finally, in Section 7, we present the conclusions of this study and outline future directions for enhancing data privacy in the PQBFL. 2. Related Work Academics and industries across multiple domains are actively exploring post-quantum cryptographic solutions in response to the emerging threats posed by quantum computingadvancements.Intherealmofend-to-endsecure messaging applications, Signal Messenger recently publishedanewversionoftheirExtendedTripleDiffie-Hellman (X3DH) protocol, called PQXDH, as a quantum-secure protocol (Kret & Schmidt, 2023). Although PQXDH uses the NIST standard Key Encapsulation Mechanism (KEM), Kyber (Avanzi et al., 2019), which provides post-quantum forward secrecy and a form of cryptographic deniability, it still relies on the hardness of the discrete log problem for authentication. Moreover, Apple proposed a post-quantum security protocol called PQ3 for conversations in the iMessage application using Kyber, which was made available to the public with iOS 17.4 and macOS 14.4 (Engineering & (SEAR), 2024). Similarly, the Transport Layer Security (TLS) protocol (Rescorla, 2018), which secures communication between web browsers and servers, is undergoing a transformation to mitigate quantum threats. The Open Quantum Safe (OQS) (Stebila & Mosca, 2016) is an opensourceprojectthataimstosupportthetransitiontoquantumresistant cryptography. They integrated a library called liboqs into the forks of BoringSSL and OpenSSL1.1.1, and a standalone OQS provider for OpenSSL3 to provide a prototype post-quantum key exchange, authentication, and ciphersuites in a hybrid key exchange in TLS 1.3 (Stebila et al., 2023). In the field of federated learning, researchers seek to provide a security mechanism that guarantees the privacy Table 1 Comparison functionality of related schemes Capability DAFL BSAFL BESIFL LaF BFL PQBFL Decentralization✓ ✓ ✓ ✕ ✓ ✓ Authentication✓ ✓ ✓ ✕ ✓ ✓ Traceability ✓ ✓ ✓ ✕ ✓ ✓ User privacy ✓ ✕ ✓ ✕ ✕ ✓ Confidentiality ✕ ✓ ✕ ✓ ✕ ✓ Quantum-security✕ ✕ ✕ ✓ ✓ ✓ Lightweight ✓ ✕ ✕ ✕ ✕ ✓ Forward secrecy✕ ✕ ✕ ✓ ✕ ✓ Post-compromise✕ ✕ ✕ ✓ ✕ ✓ of participants in collaboration with FL projects using various approaches like Homomorphic Encryption (HE) and DifferentialPrivacy(DP)(Mothukurietal.,2021).AsTable 1 shows, only two studies, LaF (Gurung et al., 2023) and BFL(P. Xu et al., 2022), considered post-quantum security concerns in FL environments. This table compares recent studies and identifies their contributions. For instance, Gurungetal.(Gurungetal.,2023)combinedtwopost-quantum signature schemes, Dilithium and XMSS, to sign transactions in blockchain-based FL. In this study, participants transfer models through signed transactions, which can incur blockchain costs for information transfers. This scheme can provide post-quantum authentication for transmission models; however, the confidentiality of the update models has not been addressed. Other quantum security studies in the field of federated learning include those of (P. Xu et al., 2022) and (Yang et al., 2022). These two schemes are improvedversionsoftheGoogleGroupscheme(Bonawitzet al., 2017) that uses secret sharing to increase the prevention of privacy models against honest-but-curious servers. In these studies, the authors employed two lattice-based cryptosystems, NewHope (Schwabe, n.d.) and Kyber, to encrypt shares between the server and participants. Given that FL systems typically involve several rounds of training, these schemesrequirekeyexchangeforeachround.Althoughthis canprovideforwardandpost-compromisesecrecy,itcreates heavydata,communicationoverhead,andtimeconsumption becauseofthepost-quantumkeysize,whichisusuallymuch larger than traditional ones. In addition, Fan et al. (2023) proposed DAFL as a lightweight digital signature method that facilitates batch verification for authentication to provide a decentralized and simpler framework for FL authentication. Zhou et al. (2024) considered the problem of centralized single-layer aggregation in FL and proposed a distributed aggregation architecture called BSAFL by integrating blockchain. They introduced signcryption schemes to guarantee the authenticity and confidentiality of messages in the FL. These schemes use quantum-vulnerable cryptography methods to verify the identities of parties. They also share public key information and models through blockchain transactions, which are extremely expensive and not cost-effective in the real world. Moreover, Y. Xu et al. (2021) proposed a

[page 3]
3 BESIFLparadigmfordistributedenvironments,suchasIoT, whichleveragesblockchaintoachievesecurityusingafully decentralized FL system, integrating mechanisms for the detectionofmaliciousnodesandincentivemanagementina unified framework. The PQBFL does not utilize blockchain for key exchanges or model transfers; instead, it uses it to improve security, decentralization, and tracking keys and models. In addition to quantum security, the proposed scheme employs akeyratchetmechanismthateliminatestheneedtoexchange keysduringeachtraininground.Itcanreducenetworkoverhead and provide forward and post-compromise security, which is ideal for FL systems to improve their performance and security. These claimed advantages of the PQBFL are demonstrated and discussed in detail throughout the paper. 3. Preliminaries We organize the preliminary concepts in this section as follows: In Section 3.1, we explain federated learning concepts.InSection3.2,weaddressthecryptographicprimitives utilized in the PQBFL protocol. 3.1. Federated Learning Conventional machine learning typically relies on a centralized data approach, in which data owners upload datasets. By contrast, the FL mechanism presents a decentralized trainingmethodthatprioritizesprivacybasedondistributed data (Zhang et al., 2021). In FL, participant𝑝𝑖 ⊆ 𝑃 where 𝑖 ∈ [1 , 𝑛] connects to a central server𝑆 and contributes to the training task by sending local model update instead of raw data to the server in several rounds, as shown in Figure 1. This can reduce communication overhead, in addition to preserving the privacy of the client participants data. Fig. 1: Federated learning architecture Duringeachtraininground,theFLserverdispatchesthe initialmodelupdatestoasubsetofFLparticipants.EachFL participant 𝑝𝑖 inround 𝑟trainsitslocalmodel 𝑚𝑟 𝑖 usingtheir specific datasets, and then sends the local model update to theFLserver,whereitgathersandaggregatesthemtocreate the joint global model using the following equation: 𝑀 𝑟 = 𝑁∑ 𝑖=1 𝑤𝑖 𝑁 𝑚𝑟 𝑖 (1) Here, 𝑀 𝑟 denotes the global model in the𝑟-th round, where 𝑟 > 0. In addition,𝑚𝑟 𝑖 denotes the local model of𝑖th FL participant,𝑤𝑖 and 𝑁 are the weights applied to𝑚𝑟 𝑖 values and number of participants, respectively. Although FL increases privacy and efficiency, there are concerns regarding different types of attacks such as authentication, model secrecy, free-riding, and single-point failure, which we discuss in Section 4.1. 3.2. Cryptographic Algorithms This section discusses traditional cryptographic algorithms and post-quantum primitives recently adopted as part of the NIST standard (FIPS203, 2023), which are integrated into thePQBFLdesign.Thesealgorithmsincludekeyexchange, encapsulation mechanisms, key derivation, and digital signatures, all working together to establish the security foundation of the proposed scheme. 3.2.1. Signature Digital signatures authenticate the received models and validate the transactions on the blockchain. Currently, popular blockchains such as Ethereum (Ethereum blockchain, 2024) continue to rely on conventional signatures because there are no concerns regarding Harvest-Now, DecryptLater attacks on signature algorithms and the existence of significantly powerful quantum computers (Schmieg & Endignoux,2024).Consequently,thePQBFLprotocolrelies on the standard Elliptic Curve Digital Signature Algorithm (ECDSA) for both the integrity and authenticity of onandoff-chaincommunication.Thekeygenerationalgorithm (𝑠𝑘, 𝑝𝑘) ← 𝑆𝑖𝑔.𝐺𝑒𝑛 (𝑘) receives a random security parameter 𝑘as input and generates a secret key𝑠𝑘and a public key 𝑝𝑘; the signing procedure𝜎 ← 𝑆𝑖𝑔.𝑆𝑖𝑔𝑛 (𝑠𝑘, 𝑚) requires the secret key 𝑠𝑘 and message 𝑚 as input and generate a signature 𝜎, and the verification algorithm {0, 1} ← 𝑆𝑖𝑔.𝑉 𝑒𝑟 (𝑝𝑘, 𝑚, 𝜎)takesasinputthepublickey,messageand signature, and returns a bit to indicate the validity of the signature. To guarantee correctness, we need∀𝑚 Pr[(𝑠𝑘, 𝑝𝑘) ← 𝑆𝑖𝑔.𝐺𝑒𝑛 (𝑘), 𝜎 ← 𝑆𝑖𝑔.𝑆𝑖𝑔𝑛 (𝑠𝑘, 𝑚) ∶ 1 ← 𝑆𝑖𝑔.𝑉 𝑒𝑟 (𝑝𝑘, 𝑚, 𝜎)] = 1 (2) The security requirement for a digital signature 𝜎 is that it is unforgeable under a chosen message attack (EUFCMA).Thus,itisinfeasibleforanattackertogenerateanew verifiable message and signature pair, even with access to a signing oracle. more precise enough: AdvEUC-CMA 𝜎 () = Pr [EUC-CMA 𝜎 → 1] (3)

[page 4]
4 where EUC-CMA 𝜎 denotes the security experiment. These equations ensure the security, integrity, and authentication ofasignaturescheme,therebyformingacriticalcomponent of the proposed protocol. 3.2.2. KDF Key Derivation Functions (KDF) are cryptographic algorithms that uses a pseudo-random function 𝑃 𝑅𝐹 to derive secret keys from a secret value, such as a root key. HKDF (Krawczyk, 2010) is a simple KDF designed based on the extract-then-expand procedure using the message authentication code, HMAC. This logically consists of two sequential algorithms: 1. 𝑘𝑒 ← 𝐻𝐾𝐷𝐹 .𝐸𝑥𝑡𝑟𝑎𝑐𝑡 (𝑟𝑘, 𝑠):Adeterministicextraction algorithm that generates an extract key𝑘𝑒 as the outputafterreceivingtherootkeymaterial 𝑟𝑘andsalt 𝑠as inputs. 2. 𝑘∗ ← 𝐻𝐾𝐷𝐹 .𝐸𝑥𝑝𝑎𝑛𝑑 (𝑘𝑒, 𝑙𝑎𝑏𝑒𝑙, 𝑙): This is also a deterministic expansion algorithm in which its input is a key𝑘𝑒 (output of the𝐸𝑥𝑡𝑟𝑎𝑐𝑡 algorithm), a label 𝑙𝑎𝑏𝑒𝑙 ∈ {0, 1}∗, and length parameter𝑙, which finally outputs a binary key𝑘∗ with length𝑙. Given that the security of the KDF originates from the security of𝑃 𝑅𝐹, these algorithms are considered secure if it is computationally impossible for an attacker to discern theoutputofapseudo-randomfunctionfromatrulyrandom function. In other words: Advprf 𝐹 () = ||| Pr [𝐹 (𝑘,⋅) = 1 ∣ 𝑘 ← ]− Pr [𝑅(⋅) = 1 ∣ 𝑅 ← ]||| ≤ 𝜖 (4) Thisguaranteesthesecurityrequirementsoftheratcheting mechanism of the PQBFL protocol. 3.2.3. Diffie-Hellman Key exchange The Elliptic Curve Diffie-Hellman (ECDH) algorithm is a traditional key exchange cryptographic protocol used to establish a shared secret between two parties. It typically operatesonacurveintheformof 𝑦2 = 𝑥3 + 𝑎𝑥 + 𝑏 (mod 𝑝) where (𝑝, 𝑎, 𝑏, 𝐺) are public domain parameters. ECDH is based on the following property of EC points: Each party computes its respective public key points𝐴 = (𝑘𝑎 ∗ 𝐺) and 𝐵 = ( 𝑘𝑏 ∗ 𝐺), leveraging its private key numbers𝑘𝑎 and 𝑘𝑏 (e.g., Alice and Bob). Once these points are exchanged, the shared secret𝑠𝑠is derived for each party using the other party’s public key and private key through the following operation: 𝐴 ∗ 𝑘𝑏 = 𝐵 ∗ 𝑘𝑎 = 𝑠𝑠 (5) This shared secret generated from ECDH, together with thesharedsecretofKEM,isusedtogeneratetheencryption keys of the models in our FL protocol. 3.2.4. Key Encapsulation Mechanism To establish a secure channel between the participants and the server in the FL to transferring models, we used a post-quantum secure key encapsulation mechanism. Kyber (Avanzi et al., 2019) is a lattice-based and IND-CCA2secure KEM that relies on the difficulty of solving the learningwitherrorsinthemodule(M-LWE)problem.Kyber KEM involve the following algorithms: • (𝑠𝑘, 𝑝𝑘) ← 𝐾𝑦𝑏𝑒𝑟.𝐾𝑒𝑦𝐺𝑒𝑛 (): It uses a secret randomized seed to generate private key𝑠𝑘 and public key 𝑝𝑘. • (𝑐𝑡, 𝑠𝑠) ← 𝐾𝑦𝑏𝑒𝑟.𝐸𝑛𝑐𝑎𝑝 (𝑝𝑘): The encapsulation algorithm employs the public key𝑝𝑘 as the input, and the output is a ciphertext𝑐𝑡 ∈  and a unique shared secretkey 𝑠𝑠 ∈ usedforsubsequentencryptionand decryption. • 𝑠𝑠 ← 𝐾𝑦𝑏𝑒𝑟.𝐷𝑒𝑐𝑎𝑝 (𝑠𝑘, 𝑐𝑡): the ciphertext 𝑐𝑡 and private key 𝑠𝑘 are employed to generate the same sharedsecretkey 𝑠𝑠ontheoppositesideofthechannel for subsequent encryption and decryption. Ifanadversary cannotcomputationallyidentifytheshared secret 𝑠𝑠 of a challenge ciphertext𝑐𝑡 from a random shared secret, even with access to a decapsulation oracle, then the KEM is considered secure under Indistinguishable under Chosen Ciphertext Attack (IND-CCA). This security requirement is formalized as follows: Advind-cca Π () = ||| Pr [IND-CCA Π → 1]− 1 2 ||| (6) where IND-CCA 𝜋 denotes the security experiment. The correctness requirement for a two-party system is also defined such that the shared secrets𝑠𝑠 on both sides must be identical. 4. PQBFL Protocol Inthissection,wefirstexaminethesecurityandprivacy requirements of the PQBFL, and then present the system model. We assumed that the server and participants in the federated learning system operate in a zero-trust environmentbasedonareputationmechanism.First,allparticipants inthesystemareconsideredsemi-honest,achievingrewards and punishments over time based on their performance. 4.1. Security and Privacy requirements Themainsecurityandprivacyrequirementsoftheproposed protocol are as follows. Authentication. The first step in a federated learning network is mutual authentication between the server and participants to prevent security threats, such as man-in-themiddle (MITM) attacks. Participants must be able to verify the global models sent by the server based on the registered

[page 5]
5 project and published tasks transactions on the blockchain. Inaddition,theservermustverifytheidentitiesoftheproject participants in different rounds based on their registration information. However, it is possible that an authenticated participant intentionally or unintentionally sends poisoned data or model to the aggregator server. Thus, authentication alone is not the criterion for a participant to be honest, demonstrating the need for a reputation-based mechanism. Confidentiality.InFL,theconfidentialityofthemodelsexchangedbetweentheserverandparticipantsiscrucial.Inthe absenceofsecrecy,adversariescancapturelocalmodelsand employtheminsubsequentattacks,suchasMembershipInferenceAttacks(MIA)(Shokrietal.,2017)andSourceInferenceAttacks(SIA)(Huetal.,2021).Inaddition,anattacker can collect local model updates transmitted between the FL server and the participants, allowing a free-ride attack with free-obtained model updates without contributions. PQBFL hasinspiredtheratchetingkeytechnique,whichisutilizedin the PQXDH (Kret & Schmidt, 2023) and PQ3 (Engineering & (SEAR), 2024) messaging protocols, to guarantee model confidentiality and provide post-compromise security and forward secrecy of transmitted models in different rounds. Forwardsecrecyprotectsthemodelagainstapotentialcompromise from the previous exchange model, thus ensuring theconfidentialityofthepreviouslyexchangedmodels.Postcompromisesecurityensuresthesecurityoffutureexchange models if current keys are compromised. Replayprotection. Althoughtheauthenticationandsecrecy of local models prevents impersonating participants and the disclosure of model specifics in an FL system, adversaries can eavesdrop on the channel between the server and participants and intercept model updates in each round. Subsequently, they can replay the previously transmitted local models in subsequent training rounds. This attack disrupts the continuous updating of the global model with fresh local models, leading to a reduction in overall performance. PQBFLaimstoprovidecryptographicandblockchain-based replay protection mechanisms to prevent such attacks. Quantum-security. Currently, a pressing concern regarding quantum computers is passive quantum attacks such as HNDL,becausequantumcomputersarestillintheirinfancy and do not pose a threat to the creation of active quantum attacks. This renders the utilization of traditional signature schemes reasonable for existing blockchains (Schmieg & Endignoux, 2024). The PQBFL can prevent passive quantum attacks, and once post-quantum blockchains become available,it caneasily adoptthemand resistactivequantum attacks. Moreover, we used traditional schemes in a hybrid mannerbecausewecannotcompletelyrelyonpost-quantum schemes due to insufficient research and potential vulnerabilities (Castryck & Decru, 2023; Moody et al., 2024). Privacy preserving.Privacy preservation for data and participantsisonemajorconcernwithFLsystems.Nonetheless, theexistenceofacurious-but-honestserverandthreatssuch as the MIA and SIA model updates jeopardize participants anddataprivacy.Blockchaincanbeanidealsolutiontoprovide a balance between the participant’s pseudo-anonymity to increase privacy and tracking malicious participants who attempt to send a suspicious model. However, model data privacy was beyond the scope of this study. Single-pointfailuremitigation. FLdependsheavilyonthe central server, leading to a single-point failure vulnerability stemming from potential Distributed Denial-of-Service (DDoS) attacks on the server, as shown in Figure 1. To address this concern, the PQBFL employs blockchains to mitigate such vulnerabilities. This approach requires participants to execute transactions with a low transaction fee, which minimizes the transmission of fake update models. 4.2. System model PQBFLbenefitsfromsymmetricandasymmetrickeyratchetingforeachtrainingroundtoretainefficiencyandsecurity against adversary access to a quantum computer. In this section, we explain the PQBFL protocol, which comprises three primary components: the blockchain, server, and the participants. The blockchain plays a pivotal role, initially serving as a key establishment facilitator to securely set cryptographic keys between participants and the server. In addition, it functions as a decentralized ledger that records all transactions, including project registration, task publishing,modelupdates,andfeedback,withintheFLframework. Although participants and server transmit models securely on the off-chain channel, they also send their corresponding transactions, as shown in Figure 2, on the on-chain channel. Therefore, this approach enables pseudo-anonymous trackFig. 2: The proposed federated learning architecture ing, rewarding, and penalizing participants and increases the efficiency of blockchain transaction costs. The next subsection elaborates on the PQBFL procedure using Alice as a participant and Bob as the aggregator server with the notations stated in Table 2.

[page 6]
6 Table 2 List of notations Symbol Description (𝑘𝑠𝑘𝑏, 𝑘𝑝𝑘𝑏) Private and public KEM keys of Bob 𝑆𝑆𝑘 KEM Shared secret (𝑒𝑠𝑘𝑏, 𝑒𝑝𝑘𝑏) Private and public ECDH keys of Bob 𝑆𝑆𝑒 ECDH Shared secret (𝑠𝑠𝑘𝑏, 𝑠𝑝𝑘𝑏) ECDSA blockchain signature key pair 𝐿𝑗 Symmetric ratcheting threshold in𝑗-th asymmetric ratchet 𝐾𝐷𝐹𝑆, 𝐾𝐷𝐹𝐴 Symmetric and asymmetric key derivation functions 𝑅𝐾𝑗 Root key at𝑗-th asymmetric ratchet 𝐶𝐾𝑖𝑗 Chain key of𝑖-th symmetric in𝑗-th asymmetric ratchet 𝐾𝑖𝑗 Model key of𝑖-th symmetric in𝑗-th asymmetric ratchet 𝑟 The round number 𝑇 Terminate task trigger 𝐷𝑡 Deadline task 𝑖𝑑𝑝, 𝑖𝑑𝑡 The project and task identifiers 𝑚𝑟, 𝑀𝑟 Local and Global Model at𝑟-th round ℎ(𝑥) One-way hash functions 4.2.1. Registrations We assume that Bob aims to initiate a new FL project that involves Alice’s participation. Bob has already deployed a smart contract on the blockchain that governs the project lifecycle, as outlined in Algorithm 1. This smart contract ensures authentication, security of keys, transparency and fairness by requiring a deposit from the project initiator, serving as a guarantee to aggregate local models and reward participants. It leverages event-driven mechanisms to manage essential operations such as registering clients and projects, publishing tasks, handling model updates, providing feedback, and finalizing the project. This structure ensures accountability, secure interactions, and automated enforcementofagreements,fosteringtrustamongallparticipants. Then, the session establishment and training process begins with the following steps: Server key generation.First, Bob uses 𝐾𝑦𝑏𝑒𝑟.𝐾𝑒𝑦𝐺𝑒𝑛 () algorithms to generate KEM keys (𝑘𝑠𝑘𝑏, 𝑘𝑝𝑘𝑏). He also generates an ECDH key pair(𝑒𝑠𝑘𝑏, 𝑒𝑝𝑘𝑏) using a random number. Server project registration.Bob initiates this process by creating aRegistration transaction on the blockchain. This transaction includes the hash of the ECDH and Kyber public keys, an initial model hash, the number of participants, and a unique project identifier in the form𝑇 𝑥𝑟 = {ℎ(𝑘𝑝𝑘𝑏||𝑒𝑝𝑘𝑏), 𝑛, ℎ(𝑀 0), 𝑖𝑑𝑝}. Participant key generation.Alice monitors events on the blockchain. Upon detecting the transaction𝑇 𝑥𝑟, she also generates the ECDH(𝑒𝑠𝑘𝑎, 𝑒𝑝𝑘𝑎)key pair. Participant project registration.Alice decides to register for the project by creating her ownRegistrationtransaction on the blockchain. In this transaction, she includes the desiredprojectidentifier 𝑖𝑑𝑝 andhashoftheECDHpublickey. We denote this transaction by𝑇 𝑥𝑟 = {ℎ(𝑒𝑝𝑘𝑎), 𝑖𝑑𝑝}. Now, as shown in the first two steps of Figure 3, Bob andAlicehavethehashofconcatenatedpublickeysofeach other and can pursue establishing the first root key𝑅𝐾1 in the next steps. Algorithm 1PQBFL Smart Contract Event RegClient(𝑐𝐴𝑑𝑑𝑟, 𝑖𝑑𝑝, 𝑠𝑐, ℎ_𝑒𝑝𝑘 ); Event RegProject(𝑖𝑑𝑝, 𝑛𝐶𝑙𝑖𝑒𝑛𝑡𝑠, 𝑠𝐴𝑑𝑑𝑟, ℎ_𝑀 0, ℎ_𝑝𝑘𝑠); Event Task(𝑟, ℎ_𝑀 𝑟, ℎ_𝑝𝑘𝑠𝑟, 𝑖𝑑𝑝, 𝑖𝑑𝑡, 𝑛𝐶𝑙𝑖𝑒𝑛𝑡𝑠, 𝐷𝑡, 𝑡𝑖𝑚𝑒); Event Update(𝑟, ℎ_𝑚𝑟, ℎ_𝑐_𝑒𝑝𝑘, 𝑖𝑑𝑝, 𝑖𝑑𝑡, 𝑐𝐴𝑑𝑑𝑟, 𝑡𝑖𝑚𝑒); Event Feedback(𝑟, 𝑖𝑑𝑝, 𝑖𝑑𝑡, ℎ_𝑚𝑟, ℎ_𝑝𝑘𝑠𝑟, 𝑐𝐴𝑑𝑑𝑟, 𝑠𝑐, 𝑇); Event ProjectTerminate (𝑟, 𝑖𝑑𝑝, 𝑖𝑑𝑡, 𝑡𝑖𝑚𝑒); Func RegisterProject(𝑖𝑑𝑝, 𝑛, ℎ_𝑀 0, ℎ_𝑝𝑘): 𝑛𝐶𝑙𝑖𝑒𝑛𝑡𝑠 ← 𝑛 𝑠𝐴𝑑𝑑𝑟 ← 𝑚𝑠𝑔.𝑠𝑒𝑛𝑑𝑒𝑟 if 𝐷𝑒𝑝𝑜𝑠𝑖𝑡 < 𝑠𝐴𝑑𝑑𝑟.𝑣𝑎𝑙𝑢𝑒 and 𝐷𝑜𝑛𝑒[𝑖𝑑𝑝] = 𝐹 𝑎𝑙𝑠𝑒 then 𝑝𝑟𝑜𝑗𝑒𝑐𝑡𝑠 [𝑖𝑑𝑝] ← {𝑖𝑑𝑝, 𝑛𝐶𝑙𝑖𝑒𝑛𝑡𝑠, 𝑠𝐴𝑑𝑑𝑟, 𝑡𝑖𝑚𝑒𝑠, ℎ_𝑀 0, ℎ_𝑝𝑘𝑏} Emit eventRegProject Func RegisterClient(ℎ(𝑒𝑝𝑘), 𝑖𝑑𝑝): if 𝑝𝑟𝑜𝑗𝑒𝑐𝑡 [𝑖𝑑𝑝].𝐶𝑙𝑖𝑒𝑛𝑡𝑠 < 𝑛𝐶𝑙𝑖𝑒𝑛𝑡𝑠 then 𝑐𝐴𝑑𝑑𝑟 ← 𝑚𝑠𝑔.𝑠𝑒𝑛𝑑𝑒𝑟 ℎ_𝑒𝑝𝑘 ← ℎ(𝑒𝑝𝑘) 𝑠𝑐 ← 0 𝑐𝑙𝑖𝑒𝑛𝑡𝑠[𝐴𝑑𝑑𝑟 ] ← {𝑐𝐴𝑑𝑑𝑟, 𝑖𝑑 𝑝, 𝑠𝑐, ℎ_𝑒𝑝𝑘} 𝑝𝑟𝑜𝑗𝑒𝑐𝑡 [𝑖𝑑𝑝].𝑐𝑙𝑖𝑒𝑛𝑡𝑠 ← 𝑝𝑟𝑜𝑗𝑒𝑐𝑡 [𝑖𝑑𝑝].𝑐𝑙𝑖𝑒𝑛𝑡𝑠 + 1 Emit eventRegClient Func PublishTask(𝑟, ℎ_𝑀, ℎ_𝑝𝑘𝑠, 𝑖𝑑𝑡, 𝑖𝑑𝑝, 𝐷𝑡): 𝑠𝐴𝑑𝑑𝑟 ← 𝑚𝑠𝑔.𝑠𝑒𝑛𝑑𝑒𝑟 𝑡𝑎𝑠𝑘𝑠[𝑖𝑑𝑡] ← {𝑟, ℎ_𝑀 𝑟, 𝑖𝑑𝑡, 𝑠𝐴𝑑𝑑𝑟, ℎ_𝑝𝑘𝑠𝑟, 𝑖𝑑𝑝, 𝐷𝑡, 𝑡𝑖𝑚𝑒} Emit event:Task Func UpdateModel(𝑟, ℎ_𝑚𝑟, ℎ(𝑐𝑡||𝑒𝑝𝑘), 𝑖𝑑𝑡, 𝑖𝑑𝑝): if ℎ_𝑝𝑘 ≠ 𝑁𝑜𝑛𝑒 then ℎ_𝑐_𝑒𝑝𝑘 ← ℎ(𝑐𝑡||𝑒𝑝𝑘); if 𝑡𝑎𝑠𝑘𝑠[𝑖𝑑𝑡] ≠ 0 and ℎ_𝑚𝑟 ≠ ∅then 𝑈 𝑝𝑑𝑎𝑡𝑒[𝑖𝑑𝑡] ← {𝑟, 𝑖𝑑𝑡, 𝑠𝐴𝑑𝑑𝑟, ℎ_𝑚𝑟, ℎ_𝑐_𝑒𝑝𝑘, 𝑖𝑑𝑝, 𝑡𝑖𝑚𝑒} Emit event:Update Func FeedbackModel(𝑟, 𝑖𝑑𝑡, 𝑖𝑑𝑝, 𝑐𝐴𝑑𝑑𝑟, 𝑠𝑐, 𝑇 ): if 𝑡𝑎𝑠𝑘𝑠[𝑖𝑑𝑡] ≠ 0 then 𝐹 𝑒𝑒𝑑𝑏𝑎𝑐𝑘𝑠[𝑖𝑑𝑡] ← {𝑟, 𝑖𝑑𝑡, 𝑖𝑑𝑝, 𝑐𝐴𝑑𝑑𝑟, 𝑡𝑖𝑚𝑒, 𝑠𝑐, 𝑇 } 𝑈 𝑝𝑑𝑎𝑡𝑒𝑆𝑐𝑜𝑟𝑒{𝑐𝐴𝑑𝑑𝑟, 𝑠𝑐} Emit event:Feedback Func UpdateScore(𝑐𝐴𝑑𝑑𝑟, 𝑠𝑐): 𝑐𝑙𝑖𝑒𝑛𝑡𝑠[𝑐𝐴𝑑𝑑𝑟 ].𝑠𝑐𝑜𝑟𝑒 ← 𝑐𝑙𝑖𝑒𝑛𝑡𝑠[𝑐𝐴𝑑𝑑𝑟 ].𝑠𝑐𝑜𝑟𝑒 + 𝑠𝑐 if 𝑐𝑙𝑖𝑒𝑛𝑡𝑠[𝑐𝐴𝑑𝑑𝑟 ].𝑠𝑐𝑜𝑟𝑒 < 0 then 𝑐𝑙𝑖𝑒𝑛𝑡𝑠[𝑐𝐴𝑑𝑑𝑟 ].𝑠𝑐𝑜𝑟𝑒 ← 0 Func FinishProject(𝑖𝑑𝑝): if 𝑠𝐴𝑑𝑑𝑟 = 𝑚𝑠𝑔.𝑠𝑒𝑛𝑑𝑒𝑟 then if 𝑝𝑟𝑜𝑗𝑒𝑐𝑡𝑠 [𝑖𝑑𝑝] ≠ 0 and 𝐷𝑜𝑛𝑒[𝑖𝑑𝑝] = 𝐹 𝑎𝑙𝑠𝑒then 𝐷𝑜𝑛𝑒[𝑖𝑑𝑝] ← 𝑇 𝑟𝑢𝑒 Emit event:ProjectTerminate

[page 7]
7 Fig. 3: Sequence diagram for registration and session key establishment. 4.2.2. Session establishment Session establishment is the second phase, after Bob and Alice’sregistration.Uponreceivingtheregistrationeventof participantontheblockchain,theprocessbeginsasfollows. SendKeys. Bobinitiatestheprocessbywrappingamessage 𝑚𝑠𝑔𝑏 ∶< 𝑘𝑝𝑘 𝑏, 𝑒𝑝𝑘𝑏, 𝑇 𝑥𝑟, 𝑖𝑑𝑝 > including his Kyber and ECDH public keys, his registration transaction𝑇 𝑥𝑟, along with the project identifier𝑖𝑑𝑝, respectively. He then utilizes the same ECDSA private key of blockchain𝑠𝑠𝑘𝑏 and signs 𝑚𝑠𝑔𝑏 to send the pair< 𝑚𝑠𝑔 𝑏, 𝜎𝑏 > to Alice through an offchain channel. Authentication. Alice validates receipt Bob’s signature on 𝑚𝑠𝑔𝑏 using Bob’s blockchain public key recovered from previousblockchaintransaction.Iftheblockchainisverified, she combines𝑘𝑝𝑘𝑏 and 𝑒𝑝𝑘𝑏 and compares their respective hashes in the blockchain transactionℎ(𝑘𝑝𝑘𝑏||𝑒𝑝𝑘𝑏). If they match, Alice authenticates Bob’s KEM and the ECDH public keys. Generate shared secrets. Alice proceeds to derive the ECDH shared secret𝑆𝑆𝑒 using her ECDH private key𝑒𝑠𝑘𝑎 andBob’sECDHpublickey 𝑒𝑝𝑘𝑏.UsingBob’sKEMpublic key, Alice obtains the KEM shared secret𝑆𝑆𝑘 and ciphertext 𝑐𝑡 via 𝐾𝑦𝑏𝑒𝑟.𝐸𝑛𝑐𝑎𝑝 (𝑘𝑝𝑘𝑏 )function. Generate root key.Alice uses the KEM and ECDH shared secrets (𝑆𝑆𝑘, 𝑆𝑆𝑒) and a zero byte sequence (0𝑥00) as salt and sends them to the asymmetric ratchet𝐾𝐷𝐹 𝐴 successively, yielding the root key𝑅𝐾𝑗 where 𝑗 ∈ [1, 𝑛]and valid for several training rounds depending on the security level requirement. InordertoexchangeAlice’skeyswithBobandestablish the corresponding root key for Bob, Alice similarly wrap message 𝑚𝑠𝑔𝑎 ∶< 𝑒𝑝𝑘 𝑎, 𝑇 𝑥𝑟, 𝑖𝑑𝑝, 𝑐𝑡 > including the ECDH publickey,herregistrationtransaction 𝑇 𝑥𝑟,projectidentifier 𝑖𝑑𝑝 and KEM cipher-text 𝑐𝑡. As illustrated in Figure 3, Alice sends a message and its corresponding signature,< 𝑚𝑠𝑔𝑎, 𝜎𝑎 > via the off-chain channel. Bob then validates thesignatureandauthenticatesthereceivedkeysusinghash of keys. He generates an ECDH shared key𝑆𝑆𝑒 using the Alicepublickey 𝑒𝑝𝑘𝑎andhisprivatekey 𝑒𝑠𝑘𝑏.Furthermore, he provides the received ciphertext𝑐𝑡 and his KEM private key 𝑘𝑠𝑘𝑏 to the 𝐾𝑦𝑏𝑒𝑟.𝐷𝑒𝑐𝑎𝑝 () function to generate the shared key𝑆𝑆𝑘, and both shared secrets pass on𝐾𝐷𝐹 𝐴 to obtain the corresponding root key𝑅𝐾𝑗. Now, both parties can proceed and derive the first chain key𝐶𝐾 𝑖,𝑗 and model key 𝐾𝑖,𝑗 from their root key. 4.2.3. Send and receive models Alice can begin transmitting her local model when she has completed the training process. Model transmission also involves on- and off-chain phases. Publish task (Step 1 and 2).When the root key is established on the server and there are sufficient participants. Bob (server) broadcasts a Publish Task transaction 𝑇 𝑥𝑝 on blockchain, including round number𝑟, project and task identifies, 𝑖𝑑𝑝 and 𝑖𝑑𝑡, hash of wrapped global model information, ℎ(𝐼𝑛𝑓 𝑟 𝑏 ), and deadline of task𝐷𝑡 for participants. He also generates the chain and model keys, 𝐶𝐾 𝑖,𝑗 and

[page 8]
8 Fig. 4: Sequence diagram for the send and receive model in a single training round. 𝐾𝑖,𝑗 using 𝐾𝐷𝐹 𝑆 based on the root key𝑅𝐾𝑗 for the round number 𝑟, such that: 𝑟 = ⎧ ⎪ ⎨ ⎪⎩ 𝐿𝑗 × 𝑗 + 𝑖 if 𝐿𝑗 is fixed ∑𝑛 𝑗=1 𝐿𝑗 + 𝑖 if 𝐿𝑗 is varies (7) where 𝐿𝑗 isthenumberofsymmetricratchetingstepsin 𝑗-th asymmetricratchetdeterminedbytheserverandparameter 𝑖 showsthenumberofcurrentsymmetricratchetsinsideeach asymmetric ratchet. Bob then encrypts𝐼𝑛𝑓 𝑟 𝑏 and 𝑇 𝑥𝑝 using modelkey 𝐾𝑖,𝑗 togenerateencryptedmessage 𝑚𝑠𝑔𝑏.Finally, he signs 𝑚𝑠𝑔𝑏 using his blockchain private key,𝑠𝑠𝑘𝑏 and sends it to Alice via the off-chain channel. Update model (Step 3 and 4). Alice (participant) receives encrypted information and a signature, first authenticates and decrypts the message 𝑚𝑠𝑔𝑏 using 𝐾𝑖,𝑗, and then starts training the local model. After the local model 𝑚𝑟 is trained, she makes the Update Model transactions 𝑇 𝑥𝑢 on the blockchain. This transaction comprises round number 𝑟, project and task identifies𝑖𝑑𝑝 and 𝑖𝑑𝑡, and the hash of model information ℎ(𝐼𝑛𝑓 𝑟 𝑎), denoted as 𝑇 𝑥𝑢 = {𝑟, ℎ(𝐼𝑛𝑓 𝑟 𝑎), 𝑖𝑑𝑝, 𝑖𝑑𝑡}. To send an updated local model to Bob,asillustratedinFigure4,Alicefirstencryptsthemodel information 𝐼𝑛𝑓 𝑟 𝑎 and transaction 𝑇 𝑥𝑢 using the generated model key 𝐾𝑖,𝑗 where 𝐾1,1 = 𝐾𝐷𝐹 𝐴(𝑅𝐾1) to construct message 𝑚𝑠𝑔𝑎. Subsequently, Alice sends signed messages 𝜎𝑎 and 𝑚𝑠𝑔𝑎 over an off-chain channel to Bob. Feedback model (Step 5).Bob is first aware of the update task information performed by Alice from the blockchain transaction 𝑇 𝑥𝑢 and then receives the message from the model through the off-chain channel. Bob authenticates the signature using Alice’s blockchain public key. He decrypts the received 𝑚𝑠𝑔𝑎 using 𝐾𝑖,𝑗 and sends it to subsequent functions, namely, analyzing the model and determining a reward or penalty for Alice. If approved, he sends the Feedback modeltransaction 𝑇 𝑥𝑓, which includes the score 𝑠𝑐, hash of the global model𝑀 𝑟, round number𝑟, project identifier 𝑖𝑑𝑝, and task identifier𝑖𝑑𝑡 to the blockchain and aggregates it with other local models. This iterative process continues until𝑇 = 1, triggering the termination of the task inthe 𝑇 𝑥𝑓 transactionandthecompletionoftheFLlearning process. 4.2.4. Key ratchets The PQBFL integrates both symmetric and asymmetric ratchets to create secure communication in the FL protocol. In each training round𝑟 ∈ 𝑁, the participants and server encrypt and decrypt the model information𝐼𝑛𝑓 𝑟 by using the model key 𝐾𝑖,𝑗, where 𝑖 ∈ [1 , 𝐿𝑗 ] denotes the 𝑖-th symmetric ratchet within the𝑗-th asymmetric ratchet. The server determines the threshold for the symmetric ratchet range 𝐿𝑗 in each asymmetric ratchet based on its required efficiency and security. The server can initiate a new period for the chain and model keys by deriving the root key 𝑅𝐾𝑗+1 using the ratchet function𝐾𝐷𝐹 𝐴. Subsequently, as illustrated in Figure 5, the updated or global model of each

[page 9]
9 Fig. 5: Illustration of PQBFL key exchange, encapsulation, decapsulation and derivation processes for different FL training rounds, 𝑟. Initially, Bob and Alice send public keys (ECDH key pairs, KEM key pair), which leads to the first asymmetric ratcheting and generation of the first root key𝑅𝐾𝑗. Then, given𝐿𝑗 = 9, nine distinct keys ( model key) are consecutively derived for each model round using symmetric ratcheting,𝐾𝐷𝐹 𝑆. The second asymmetric ratcheting is trigger by Bob again to derive the model keys for the10-th round in Bob and Alice party. round is encrypted using distinct model keys𝐾𝑖,𝑗 derived from the previous chain key𝐶𝐾 𝑖−1,𝑗 using 𝐾𝐷𝐹 𝑆. Thesymmetricratchetingcounter 𝑖increasesuntilanew asymmetricratchetingoccurs,andafterencryptionsanddecryptionsinround 𝑟,thepreviousmodelkeyisdiscarded.To perform asymmetric ratcheting, the server must regenerate and distribute new public KEM and ECDH keys to participants whose information payload𝐼𝑛𝑓 𝑟 𝑏 in the publication step is updated to< 𝑟, 𝑘𝑝𝑘𝑏, 𝑒𝑝𝑘𝑏, 𝑀𝑟−1, 𝑖𝑑𝑝, 𝑖𝑑𝑡, 𝐷𝑡 >. The corresponding transaction Publish Task is also converted to 𝑇 𝑥𝑝 = { 𝑟, ℎ(𝐼𝑛𝑓 𝑟 𝑏 ), ℎ(𝑘𝑝𝑘𝑏||𝑒𝑝𝑘𝑏), 𝑖𝑑𝑝, 𝑖𝑑𝑡, 𝐷𝑡}. Upon receiving the new public keys, the participant derives a new root key,𝑅𝐾𝑗+1, and its subsequent model key,𝐾𝑖,𝑗+1, whichisusedforthenextroundencryption.Theinformation payloadoftheparticipantfortransmissiontotheserverisin the form𝐼𝑛𝑓 𝑟 𝑎 ∶< 𝑟, 𝑐𝑡, 𝑒𝑝𝑘 𝑎, 𝑚𝑟, 𝑖𝑑𝑝, 𝑖𝑑𝑡 >, and theUpdate Modeltransactionis 𝑇 𝑥𝑢 = {𝑟, ℎ(𝐼𝑛𝑓 𝑟 𝑎), ℎ(𝑐𝑡||𝑒𝑝𝑘𝑎), 𝑖𝑑𝑝, 𝑖𝑑𝑡}. These changes in the transaction and payload lead to the derivation of the same model key on both sides. Here, we described how to establish keys and transmit models securely for a federated learning system using PQBFL. In the following section, we present a security analysis of our proposed protocol. 5. Security analysis In this section, we analyze the security of the proposed protocol given the assumptions of cryptographic hardness problems. We present a security model to analyze the security of the PQBFL. It relies on a multistage Authenticated Key Exchange (AKE) security model called Fischlin and Göunther (Fischlin & Günther, 2014). The basic concept is thatanadversaryshouldcommunicatewithachallengerwho represents both parties. 5.1. Security Model In this security model, we address the confidentiality, forwardsecrecy,andpost-compromisesecurityoftheproposed scheme against quantum powered attackers. The adversary models a passive or active opponent by directing every interaction between the truthful parties. Furthermore, the

[page 10]
10 adversarycanobtainrootkeysandephemeralsharedsecrets tocreatemodelkeysamongothersecretsbelongingtotruthful parties. Next, an honest party challenges the adversary in obtaining information regarding the model key. This is modeledastheadversary’sabilitytodifferentiatethemodel keyfromacompletelyrandombitstringofthesamelength. Iftheadversarycannotdosowithaprobabilitysignificantly different from 1 2, then the model keys are random for the adversary. Let Π be a post-quantum security protocol that uses KEMforconfidentiality.Thenotionofsecurityisdefinedin termsoftheadversary’sadvantageinasecurityexperiment. The advantage of adversary in the security experiment is defined as: 𝐴𝑑𝑣𝑖𝑛𝑑−𝑐𝑐𝑎 Π, (𝜆) = |𝑃 𝑟[𝑏′ = 𝑏] − 1 2 | (8) where the probability is assumed by the randomness of the challenger  and the adversary. Theorem 1 demonstrates that the security of the model keysinthePQBFLissecureinahybridtraditionalandpostquantum environment. This means that they are secure if either the ECDH problem assumptions remain difficult or the post-quantum scheme remains secure. This can deduced fromthefactthatthepertinentadvantageboundariescontain a term of the type min{𝜖PRF-DH 𝐺 + … , +𝜖IND-CCA Π + …} This indicates that security remains valid even if one of thetwofoundationalassumptionsiscompromised,provided that the other assumptions are unbroken. Theorem 1: Assume that Expand,Extract algorithms that constitute KDF𝑆 and KDF𝐴 ratcheting processes are all PRFs in their arguments and𝜎 is an EUF-CMA secure signature. We also assume thatΠ is an IND-CCA-secure KEM, and the PRF-ODH-secure assumption applies to the elliptic curve group. The PQBFL considers that the 𝑖-th model key in the symmetric ratchet that arises from the𝑗th asymmetric ratchet in round𝑟 is fresh. Consequently, the derived model key𝐾𝑖,𝑗 is indistinguishable from a random bit string of identical length. Theorem2:InthePQBFLprotocol,ifthecryptographic primitives (KDF, IND-CCA secure KEM, and PRF-ODH secure ECDH) are secure, then any session key𝐾𝑖,𝑗 derived within the symmetric ratcheting mechanism is computationally independent of prior keys (forward secrecy), and futurekeysremainindistinguishablefromrandomevenafter compromising the current key when asymmetric ratcheting occurs (post-compromise security). 5.2. Security Proof Confidentionlity.Weprovethesecurityoftherootkey 𝑅𝐾𝑗 and the chain key𝐶𝐾 𝑖,𝑗−1 used to derive a particular model key 𝐾𝑖,𝑗.Furthermore,becauseKEMandECDHtechniques are primarily responsible for the initial establishment of keys,wemustanalyzeandvalidatelong-termsecurityusing theorems,lemmas,andgames.Thefollowingarethelemmas for each phase: • Lemma 1 indicates that the root key𝑅𝐾0 and the chain key𝐶𝐾 0.0 established by the server and participant sides are secure during the initial establishment of the key. • Lemma2 demonstratesthesecurityofthechainkeys 𝐶𝐾 0,𝑗 andtheroot 𝑅𝐾𝑗 establishedbytheasymmetric ratchet on the participants and server sides. • Lemma 3. shows that the chain keys𝐶𝐾 𝑖,𝑗 and the model keys𝐾𝑖,𝑗 derived in the symmetric ratchet are secure. Proof phase:we provide a sequence of games𝐺 that gradually modify the security experiment to simplify the analysis. G0: This is the original IND-CCA security game between the adversaryand the challenger in PQBFL. 𝐴𝑑𝑣0 = 𝐴𝑑𝑣𝑖𝑛𝑑 Π () G1: In this game, the challenger substitutes a random bit string of the same length for the𝑆𝑆𝑘 value. The adversary  receives as input a challenge cipher-text𝑐𝑡∗ where 𝑐𝑡 ≠ 𝑐𝑡∗, random-or-real value𝑆𝑆 ∗ 𝑘, and decapsulation oracle𝑂(𝐷𝑒𝑐𝑎𝑝) using the private key𝑘𝑠𝑘, and then must return its estimate of whether𝑆𝑆 ∗ 𝑘 is random or real. The adversary  outputs as its response to the IND-CCA challenger the same𝑏′ ∈ {0 , 1} output. In the case of a real 𝑆𝑆 ∗ 𝑘, 𝑏′ = 0, whereas when𝑆𝑆 ∗ 𝑘 is random,𝑏′ = 1. Thus 𝐴𝑑𝑣0 ≤ 𝐴𝑑𝑣𝑖𝑛𝑑 Π () + 𝐴𝑑𝑣1 G2: In this game, the challenger generates the initial root keys𝑅𝐾0 and chain keys𝐶𝐾 0.0 for the several rounds. The challenger replaces the output of KDF𝐴 the used in the asymmetric ratchet phase with a random bit string with the samelength 𝑅𝐾 ∗ 0.Adversary receivestherealorrandom outputofKDF 𝐴 andinteractswiththesystemtodistinguish whetherthe outputisrealor random.Theadversaryoutputs 𝑏′ ∈ {0 , 1} as a guess of whether the output is real or random. When 𝑏′ output is real, it simulates Game 1 since 𝑆𝑆 israndom,whereaswhenoutputisrandom,itsimulates Game 2 so that adversary’s advantage in distinguishing the 𝐾𝐷𝐹 𝐴 output in game is 𝐴𝑑𝑣1 ≤ 𝐴𝑑𝑣𝑘𝑑𝑓𝐴 𝑝𝑟𝑓 () + 𝐴𝑑𝑣2 G3:Challenger  generatesinitialkeysandstatesforthe symmetricratchet.Subsequently,thechallengerreplacesthe output of KDF𝑆 (chain keys𝐶𝐾 𝑖,𝑗 and model key𝐾𝑖𝑗) with randombitstrings.Foreachderivationof 𝐶𝐾 𝑖,𝑗 and 𝐾𝑖,𝑗,the adversary interacts with the protocol as usual and tries to distinguishtherealkeysfromrandomoneswithoutputguess 𝑏′ ∈ {0, 1}. Thus, the adversary’s advantage𝐺2 is bounded by the PRF security of KDF. By combining these, we can

[page 11]
11 concludethattheadversary’sadvantageindistinguishingthe real chain keys𝐶𝐾 𝑖,𝑗 and model key𝐾𝑖,𝑗 from random bit strings is negligible. 𝐴𝑑𝑣2 ≤ 𝐴𝑑𝑣𝑘𝑑𝑓𝑠 𝐶𝐾𝑖𝑗 () + 𝐴𝑑𝑣𝑘𝑑𝑓𝑠 𝐾𝑖𝑗 () + 𝐴𝑑𝑣3 Therefore, the chain keys𝐶𝐾 𝑖,𝑗 and the model key𝐾𝑖𝑗 derived in the symmetric ratchet are secure. The above games show that the PQBFL achieves confidentiality under adaptive chosen cipher-text security. Forward and Post-compromise security.In PQBFL, the serverandparticipantsutilizeafreshmodelkey 𝐾𝑖,𝑗 foreach training round derived through KDF symmetric ratcheting. Forward secrecy ensures that if the𝑟-th round key is compromised, keys from earlier rounds (𝐾𝑖 ′,𝑗 for 𝑖 ′ < 𝑖 ) are secure, thereby securing the previously transmitted models. The symmetric ratcheting mechanism ensures that each key 𝐾𝑖,𝑗 derived from a fresh chain key𝐶𝐾 𝑖−1,𝑗 is secure and is discarded after use. 𝐶𝐾 𝑖,𝑗 = 𝐾𝐷𝐹 𝑠(𝐶𝐾 𝑖−1,𝑗, 𝑖𝑛𝑓 𝑜) Theadversary’sadvantageincompromisingearlierkeys, given 𝐾𝑖,𝑗 is 𝐴𝑑𝑣𝑓 𝑜𝑟𝑤𝑎𝑟𝑑  ≤ 𝐴𝑑𝑣𝑃 𝑅𝐹  Inaddition,theservercantriggerasymmetricratcheting by sending new public keys to participants to derive a new root key𝑅𝐾𝑗+1. Whenever a new root key is established, it provides post-compromise security for the model transmission. Post-compromise security ensures that if a key𝐾𝑖,𝑗 is compromised, the future keys remain secure. Asymmetric ratcheting triggers a new key exchange when the threshold 𝐿𝑗 of the symmetric ratcheting range is reached: 𝑅𝐾𝑗+1 = 𝐾𝐷𝐹 𝐴(𝑆𝑆 ′ 𝑘, 𝑆𝑆 ′ 𝑒) where 𝑆𝑆 ′ 𝑘 and 𝑆𝑆 ′ 𝑒 are derived from freshly generated public-privatekeypairs.Theadversary’sadvantageincompromising the future keys given𝐾𝑖,𝑗 is 𝐴𝑑𝑣𝑝𝑜𝑠𝑡−𝑐𝑜𝑚𝑝𝑟𝑜𝑚𝑖𝑠𝑒  ≤ 𝑚𝑖𝑛{𝐴𝑑𝑣𝐼𝑁𝐷 −𝐶𝐶𝐴 ,𝐾𝑦𝑏𝑒𝑟 , 𝐴𝑑𝑣𝑃 𝑅𝐹−𝐷𝐻  } In other words, given that𝐾𝑖,𝑗 represents the model key for the 𝑖-th symmetric and𝑗-th asymmetric ratchet, if key 𝐾𝑖,𝑗 is compromised, the set of compromised keys𝐾𝑐 can be defined as 𝐾𝑐 = {𝐾𝑖+𝑛,𝑗 | 0 ≤ 𝑛 ≤ 𝐿𝑗} where 𝑛 denotes the number of compromised model keys. This indicates that, if the model key𝐾𝑖,𝑗 is compromised, the attacker can only retrieve the models encrypted by the model keys up to𝐾𝑖,𝑗+1 with the following probability: 𝑃 [𝐶𝑜𝑚𝑝𝑟𝑜𝑚𝑖𝑠𝑒(𝐾𝑖+𝑛,𝑗) |𝐾𝑐] In the following section, we discuss the security attacks and threats mitigated by PQBFL. 5.3. Security discussion In this section, we explain how PQBFL meets the security requirements mentioned in Section 4.1. These requirements are covered differently in this context. For instance, duallayer security and resistance against various attacks can be used to examine confidentiality. Authentication. For the authenticity of the received payloadsintheoff-chainchannel,thePQBFLemploysidentical ECDSA signature keys used for registration transactions. Theparticipantsandserverfirstmadearegistrationtransactionusingtheirprivatekeysontheblockchain.Giventheimmutability of registered transactions, using different public keysusedinregistrationforsigningduringdatatransmission makes it impossible to verify the sender. This approach ensures that adversaries cannot sign data with a different public key and guarantees the integrity of authentication. Dual-Layer security.Although post-quantum schemes are analyzed and standardized by the cryptography community, they are in their infancy and we cannot trust them completely.PQBFLadoptsahybridapproachusingbothECDH and Kyber to derive root keys; consequently, the attacker must break both classical and post-quantum algorithms. This makes PQBFL secure against HNDL attacks and mitigates potential vulnerabilities in post-quantum standard algorithms. Identity privacy vs traceability.It should be noted that a reputation-based mechanism requires traceability of rewards and penalties. This makes it impossible to simultaneously achieve complete anonymity and traceability in such systems. However, PQBFL utilizes blockchains that offer pseudo-anonymity via blockchain addresses, thereby providingtheidentityprivacyandtraceabilityofparticipants in an FL system. ResistanceofVariousAttacks. WefoundthatPQBFLprovides security against various attacks in FL environments. 1. Free-ridingattack:Thestrongencryptionandtransaction records of both local and global models between the server and participants indicate that no entity can gain unauthorized access to the models, thus preventing a free-riding attack. 2. DDoSattack: Theregistrationphaseandtherecording of different transactions on the distributed blockchain withinthePQBFLeliminatethepossibilityofaDDoS attack. 3. Man-in-the-middleattack: Thesystem’sabilitytoprovidesecureauthenticationisevidentfromtheprevious explanation. Consequently, this mitigates the impact of man-in-the-middle attacks. 4. Replayattack: Becausetheparticipantsandtheserver generateafreshmodelkeyanduseauniquetimestamp foreachtraininground,themembersofanFLproject can easily detect any replay attack. The features discussed here demonstrate that the proposed scheme can withstand several attacks and security

[page 12]
12 (a) Participant (b) Server (c) Total Fig. 6: Computation performance in different symmetric ratcheting ranges risks in FL environments. In the next section, we examine the performance of the PQBFL. 6. Performance Analysis To provide a balance between efficacy and security, PQBFL presents forward secrecy and post-compromise security with a ratcheting mechanism, whereas other studies mustexchangekeysforeachroundtoprovidethiscapability, whichhasanextremelyhighcomputationaloverhead.More details on the implementation of the protocol, including server and client source codes, are available on GitHub (HIGHer, 2024). In the following section, we analyze computational and communication costs and evaluate the proposed scheme. 6.1. Computation Cost The computation cost of each party (server or participant) can be broken down as follows: 1) key establishment between server and participant, including key generation, encapsulation, and decapsulation operations, which is 𝑂(𝑛) and 2) key derivation, encryption, signing, and verification, 𝑂(𝑛). Overall, the computational complexity for each party is 𝑂(𝑛2) for all rounds in an FL project. However, the total costs for the participants and the servers are different, as shown in Table 3 because only the encapsulation operation is on the participant side, and the Kyber key generation and decapsulation are located on the server side. This shows thattheparticipantsrequirefewercomputationaloperations, which is desirable for devices with constrained resources. We evaluated the performance using Post-Quantum Cryptography (PQCrypto) (Demetriou & Phil, 2024) and PyCryptodome (Helder & Eijs, 2024) Python libraries, and the execution time of cryptographic operations was measured on running Windows 11 with an Intel(R) Core(TM) i7-1195G7 @ 2.90GHz and 32GB of RAM. To provide a balance between security and efficiency, we considered a 128-bit quantum security level and selected the following cryptographic parameters: Table 3 Comparison of first two rounds operation time in both side Party Operations Total cost (ns)Asymmetric ratchet rounds Symmetric ratchet rounds Participant𝑇𝑘𝑔+𝑇𝑒𝑛𝑐+ 2𝑇𝑑𝑟+𝑇𝑠 +𝑇𝑣 2𝑇𝑑𝑟+𝑇𝑠 +𝑇𝑣 4408 Server 2𝑇𝑘𝑔+𝑇𝑑𝑛𝑐+ 2𝑇𝑑𝑟+𝑇𝑠 +𝑇𝑣 2𝑇𝑑𝑟+𝑇𝑠 +𝑇𝑣 5065 • We utilize kyber-768 for KEM and ECDH over the NIST P-256 curve for key exchange, • KeyderivationfunctionsinstantiatewithHKDFusing SHA-384 hash functions. • We use ECDSA over secp256k1 as blockchain and models signature algorithm and AES-256 for model encryptions. Public-key cryptography algorithms are used primarily to establish a new root key𝑅𝐾𝑗 through asymmetric ratcheting. The server determines the root-key lifetime based on the required security level by selecting an appropriate symmetric ratcheting range𝐿𝑗. To evaluate the impact of different symmetric ratcheting ranges on computational costs over varying rounds, we performed experiments using various values 𝐿𝑗, as illustrated in Figure 6. The analysis was performed for the participant, the server and the total computation costs of both parties combined. The results demonstratethatasthesymmetricratchetingrangeexpands, the execution time required to compute the model key decreases.Thisreductionisattributedtothedecreasedreliance on public-key operations. In particular, the server generally incurs slightly higher computational costs compared to the participant. This difference arises from the server’s need to perform both post-quantum key generation and decapsulation, while the participant only handles encapsulation. This distinction is evident in the graphs. In addition, in some cases, the computation time curves for 50, 100, and 150 rounds overlap. This behavior is due to the inherent use of pseudo-random functions in the generation of postquantum and traditional keys, leading to similar computational patterns across these settings. These findings suggest

[page 13]
13 that an ideal symmetric ratcheting range to balance security andcomputationalefficiencyisapproximately10symmetric ratchets per asymmetric ratchet. 6.2. Communication Cost The aforementioned studies assumed only a few training rounds for the FL systems. However, practical FL training requires several rounds to achieve complete convergence in the global model. Thus, they need to exchange keys in every round for forward and post-compromise security, which creates communication and computational overhead. Weusedahybridprocedureanddonotexchangepublickeys ormodelsthroughtheblockchainnetworkforkeyestablishment because it is not cost-effective. We broadcast the hash of the information keys and model, which can significantly decrease the communication costs of the blockchain. However, the communication costs for key exchanges between participants and servers are divided into two categories: onchain and off-chain costs. A participant receives two public keys from the server and sends its public key and ciphertext to the server via the off-chain channel at𝑂(𝑛) cost. Moreover, the on-chain channel includes sending and receiving Registration transactions with 𝑂(𝑚) communication costs. Therefore, the overall communication cost of PQBFL for each party is𝑂(𝑛 + 𝑚). Inourscheme, Registrationtransactionsthatoccuronce during an FL project require only3(32) + 2(2) = 100 byte data for both the server and a single participant. In addition, thesizeofthe Publish,Update andFeedbacktransactionsin thewholeofasingleroundisonly 4(32)+3(4)+2(2)+4(1) = 148bytes,while,ascanbeseeninFigure7DAFL(Fanetal., 2023), (G. Xu et al., 2022) and (Wang et al., 2021) require 184, 440, and 166 bytes only for the update message on the blockchain. These 148 bytes include 32 bytes for the hash of the models and keys and four bytes for identifiers inallthreetransactions.Twobytesareusedforthedeadline task and score inPublish, Feedback, one byte for the round numbers in the three transactions, and a termination flag in the Feedbacktransaction. Fig. 7: Comparison of communication costs on blockchain. Table 4 Gas consumption in different transactions in a single round Party Transactions TotalGasRegistration Publish Task Update model Feedback model Participant 72.452 - 233.272 - 305.724 Server 236.533 258.329 - 211.070 515.932 Thegasconsumptionforvarioustransactionsinasingle round of the PQBFL protocol is presented in Table 4. The analysis highlights that the participant incurs a total gas cost of 305.724 units, mainly attributed to the registration (72.452 units) and update model (233.272 units) transactions. Meanwhile, the server has a higher total gas consumption of 515.932 units, distributed through registration (236.533 units), publish task (258.329 units), and feedback model (211.070 units). These results reflect the computational overhead for both parties, with the server bearing a greater burden due to its role in task publication and managing feedback for model updates. We also evaluated the communication performance of thePQBFLinthepresenceofvariousparticipants,asshown in Figure 8. As illustrated, the fixed communication cost on the off-chain channel increases linearly with the number of participants across different rounds. However, using a smaller symmetric ratcheting range significantly increases the amount of data transmitted due to the more frequent public key exchanges. Notably, as the symmetric ratcheting range expands to𝐿𝑗 = 20, the transmitted data is reduced to less than one-third of the amount required for a smaller range, such as𝐿𝑗 = 5. Moreover, Figure 9 illustrates the communication cost (in bytes) on the on-chain channel for both a single participant and the server across different rounds. It is evident thattheon-chainchannelincurssignificantlylowercommunication overhead compared to the off-chain channel, and this overhead decreases as the symmetric ratcheting range increases. This reduction occurs because fewer public key hash data are transmitted through the on-chain channel. Additionally,theserverconsistentlytransmitsmoredataonchain than the participant. This difference arises from the server’s involvement in bothFeedback and Publish transactions, whereas participants are only responsible for an Updatetransaction in each round. 7. Conclusion In this paper, we propose a post-quantum-based federated learning protocol with a hybrid architecture to provide both confidentiality and high performance in FL systems.Weemployedacombinedapproachthatinvolvedpostquantum and traditional cryptography. In addition, we utilized blockchain technology to address participant privacy and traceability concerns, considering the data included in transactions and the communication overhead of the onchain channel. The blockchain also facilitates key exchange authenticationtoestablishsessionsbetweentheparticipants

[page 14]
14 (a) 𝐿𝑗 = 5 (b) 𝐿𝑗 = 10 (c) 𝐿𝑗 = 20 Fig. 8: Size of off-chain data transmitted in three different symmetric ratcheting ranges. (a) Participant (b) Server Fig. 9: On-chaindatatransmittedforroundtrainingindifferent symmetric ratchet ranges. and the server in the PQBFL-based FL system. Our proposed protocol fulfills forward secrecy, post-compromise, and Harvest-Now, Decrypt-Later security as a distinct contribution to FL systems, in addition to the conventional security requirements of FL environments, such as protection against free-riding attacks. The performance of the PQBFL intermsofcomputationalandcommunicationcostsdemonstrated its feasibility for real FL systems. Finally, in future work,weaimtoapplypost-quantumhomomorphiccryptography to mitigate FL data privacy risks, such as honest-butcurious servers and membership inference attacks. Acknowledgement This work is financed through national funds by FCT Fundação para a Ciência e a Tecnologia, I.P., in the frameworkoftheProjectUIDB/00326/2020andUIDP/00326/2020 andtheScienceandTechnologyDevelopmentFund,Macau SAR. (File no. 0044/2022/A1). References Avanzi, R., Bos, J., Ducas, L., Kiltz, E., Lepoint, T., Lyubashevsky, V., ... Stehlé, D. (2019). Crystals-kyber algorithm specifications and supporting documentation.NIST PQC Round,2(4), 1–43. Bonawitz, K., Ivanov, V., Kreuter, B., Marcedone, A., McMahan, H. B., Patel, S., ... Seth, K. (2017). Practical secure aggregation for privacypreserving machine learning. In proceedings of the 2017 acm sigsac conferenceoncomputerandcommunicationssecurity (pp.1175–1191). Castryck,W.,&Decru,T. (2023). Anefficientkeyrecoveryattackonsidh. In Annual international conference on the theory and applications of cryptographic techniques(pp. 423–447). Demetriou, & Phil. (2024). pqcrypto: Post-quantum cryptography for Python. Retrieved 2024-04-30, fromhttps://github.com/kpdemetriou/ pqcrypto Engineering, A. S., & (SEAR), A. (2024).Blog - iMessage with PQ3: The new state of the art in quantum-secure messaging at scale - Apple Security Research.Retrieved 2024-03-03, fromhttps://security.apple .com/blog/imessage-pq3/ Ethereum blockchain. (2024). Retrieved 2024-05-10, from https:// ethereum.org/en/ Fan, M., Zhang, Z., Li, Z., Sun, G., Yu, H., & Guizani, M. (2023). Blockchain-baseddecentralizedandlightweightanonymousauthenticationforfederatedlearning. IEEETransactionsonVehicularTechnology . FIPS203, N. (2023). Module-lattice-based key-encapsulation mechanism standard. Federal Information Processing Standards Publication. Fischlin, M., & Günther, F. (2014). Multi-stage key exchange and the case of google’s quic protocol. InProceedings of the 2014 acm sigsac conferenceoncomputerandcommunicationssecurity (pp.1193–1204). Gharavi, H., Granjal, J., & Monteiro, E. (2024). Post-quantum blockchain securityfortheinternetofthings:Surveyandresearchdirections. IEEE Communications Surveys & Tutorials. Grover, L. K. (1996). A fast quantum mechanical algorithm for database search. InProceedings of the twenty-eighth annual acm symposium on theory of computing(pp. 212–219). Gurung, D., Pokhrel, S. R., & Li, G. (2023). Performance analysis and evaluation of post quantum secure blockchain federated learning.arXiv preprint arXiv:2306.14772. Helder, & Eijs. (2024).pycryptodome: Cryptographic library for Python. Retrieved 2024-04-30, fromhttps://www.pycryptodome.org HIGHer. (2024). Pqbfl: implementation of Post-quantum and blockchainbased protocol for fl.Retrieved 2024-07-31, fromhttps://github.com/ HIGH0101/PQBFL/tree/main Hu, H., Salcic, Z., Sun, L., Dobbie, G., & Zhang, X. (2021). Source inference attacks in federated learning. In 2021 ieee international conference on data mining (icdm)(pp. 1102–1107). Krawczyk, H. (2010). Cryptographic extraction and key derivation: The hkdf scheme. InAnnual cryptology conference(pp. 631–648). Kret, E., & Schmidt, R. (2023).The pqxdh key agreement protocol. Moody, D., Perlner, R., Regenscheid, A., Robinson, A., & Cooper, D. (2024). Transition to post-quantum cryptography standards(Tech. Rep.). National Institute of Standards and Technology. Mothukuri, V., Parizi, R. M., Pouriyeh, S., Huang, Y., Dehghantanha, A., & Srivastava, G. (2021). A survey on security and privacy of federated learning. Future Generation Computer Systems,115, 619–640.

[page 15]
15 Qammar, A., Karim, A., Ning, H., & Ding, J. (2023). Securing federated learning with blockchain: a systematic literature review. Artificial Intelligence Review,56(5), 3951–3985. Rehman,M.H.,Salah,K.,Damiani,E.,&Svetinovic,D. (2020). Towards blockchain-based reputation-aware federated learning. InIeee infocom 2020-ieeeconferenceoncomputercommunicationsworkshops(infocom wkshps) (pp. 183–188). Rescorla, E. (2018). The transport layer security (tls) protocol version 1.3 (Tech. Rep.). Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). Retrieved 2024-09-17, fromhttps://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8446 Schmieg, S. K., & Endignoux, G. (2024). Google’s Threat model for Post-Quantum Cryptography. Retrieved 2024-0510, from https://bughunters.google.com/blog/5108747984306176/ google-s-threat-model-for-post-quantum-cryptography Schwabe, P. (n.d.). NewHope: A key-exchange protocol based on the Ring-Learning-with-Errors (Ring-LWE). Retrieved 2024-05-17, from https://newhopecrypto.org/ Shokri, R., Stronati, M., Song, C., & Shmatikov, V. (2017). Membership inferenceattacksagainstmachinelearningmodels. In 2017ieeesymposium on security and privacy (sp)(pp. 3–18). Shor, P. W. (1994). Algorithms for quantum computation: discrete logarithms and factoring. In Proceedings 35th annual symposium on foundations of computer science(pp. 124–134). Stebila, D., Fluhrer, S., & Gueron, S. (2023, September 7).Hybrid key exchangeinTLS1.3 (Internet-DraftNo.draft-ietf-tls-hybrid-design-09). Internet Engineering Task Force. Retrieved fromhttps://datatracker .ietf.org/doc/draft-ietf-tls-hybrid-design/09/ (Work in Progress) Stebila, D., & Mosca, M. (2016). Post-quantum key exchange for the internet and the open quantum safe project. InInternational conference on selected areas in cryptography(pp. 14–37). Wang, W., Memon, F. H., Lian, Z., Yin, Z., Gadekallu, T. R., Pham, Q.-V., ... Su,C. (2021). Secure-enhancedfederatedlearningforai-empowered electric vehicle energy prediction.IEEE Consumer Electronics Magazine,12(2), 27–34. Xu,G.,Dong,J.,Ma,C.,Liu,J.,&Cliff,U.G.O. (2022). Acertificateless signcryptionmechanismbasedonblockchainforedgecomputing. IEEE Internet of Things Journal,10(14), 11960–11974. Xu, P., Hu, M., Chen, T., Wang, W., & Jin, H. (2022). Laf: Lattice-based and communication-efficient federated learning.IEEE Transactions on Information Forensics and Security,17, 2483–2496. Xu,Y.,Lu,Z.,Gai,K.,Duan,Q.,Lin,J.,Wu,J.,&Choo,K.-K.R. (2021). Besifl: Blockchain-empowered secure and incentive federated learning paradigm in iot.IEEE Internet of Things Journal,10(8), 6561–6573. Yang, S., Chen, Y., Tu, S., & Yang, Z. (2022). A post-quantum secure aggregation for federated learning. In Proceedings of the 2022 12th international conference on communication and network security(pp. 117–124). Zhang, C., Xie, Y., Bai, H., Yu, B., Li, W., & Gao, Y. (2021). A survey on federated learning.Knowledge-Based Systems,216, 106775. Zhou,Z.,Tian,Y.,Xiong,J.,Peng,C.,Li,J.,&Yang,N.(2024).Blockchain andsigncryptionenabledasynchronousfederatedlearningframeworkin fog computing.Digital Communications and Networks.
